Chennai: 98404 11333 | Coimbatore: 95978 88270 | Madurai: 97900 94102 Toggle navigation Home About Us Corporate Training Courses Software Development C & C ++ .Net Java Python Web Development Web Designing PHP Angular Node JS Javascript UI UX Wordpress Finance & Accounting Tally GST Digital Marketing Digital Marketing SEO SMM Mobile Development Android iOS Ionic Xamarin Cloud Cloud Computing AWS Google Cloud Microsoft Azure VMWare Languages & Proficiency Exam: Spoken English German French Japanese TOEFL IELTS Software Testing Software Testing Selenium LoadRunner Appium QTP Manual Testing Artificial Intelligence Python with Machine Learning Artificial Intelligence R with Machine Learning DevOps DataBase Oracle Oracle DBA SQL Photoshop RPA RPA UI Path Blue Prism Automation Anywhere Big Data Hadoop Hadoop Admin Spark Data Science & Business Intelligence Data Science Data Analytics Tableau R Programming Placement Training Soft Skills Placement Training CRM Microsoft Dynamics Pega Salesforce Networking & Cyber Security: CCNA CCNP Ethical Hacking Others Linux UNIX Embedded System IOT Blockchain Job Openings Blog Testimonials Contact Us Java Training in Chennai Trusted By 20,000+ Students Stay Ahead With FITA Enquire About Course × REGISTER Quick Enquiry Select The BranchChennai - VelacheryChennai - Anna NagarChennai - T NagarChennai - TambaramChennai - ThoraipakkamCoimbatoreMadurai Select The CourseC/C++JAVA/J2EEDot NetPythonPython with Machine LearningSoftware TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTLoadRunnerMobile Testing/AppiumJMeterSEODigital MarketingCloud Computing/AWSAzureSalesforceVMWareDevOpsBig Data/HadoopR AnalyticsData ScienceMachine Learning using Python / RSparkTableauIoT - Internet of ThingsRPABlockchainAndroidiOSIonicAngularJSFull StackMEANNodeJSReactJS/NativeUI UXPHP/MYSQLWeb DesigningPhotoshopGraphic DesignCCNASASInformaticaPlacement Training/AptitudeCareer GuidanceOracleUnix/LinuxEmbeddedExcelEthical HackingPegaPrimaveraTallyGSTIELTSSpoken EnglishGermanFrenchJapaneseSpanishInplantOther Planning to Start TrainingImmediatelyIn 2 WeeksIn a Month 
		 Learn Java Training In Chennai At FITA - No 1 Java Training Institute In Chennai. Call 98404-11333 For More Details. Register today for learning basic core Java Training to go for advanced J2EE Java Training in Chennai. Java is one of the most powerful and secure programming languages available in the market that was created more than 20 years back. From large super computers to mobile phones, millions of applications run on Java platform. Java was introduced more than two decades ago and it is still considered as an evergreen programming language in the software development industry for its portable, secure and robust features. JAVA Training in Chennai presents the aspirants a well-planned syllabus which is helpful to manage the complex software solutions. There is a huge demand for Java and J2EE developers to develop new applications as well as to maintain the old applications developed in Java. FITA offers a wide range of JAVA training in Chennai to meet the growing corporate needs. The course materials and syllabus are prepared by trainers who have many years of experience in leading IT companies. We provide Java Training in Chennai with Placement in leading companies. Walk into our Office to find the list of Companies our Students are placed. Our Java Course Syllabus is designed to master your skills in Java programming, development and other essential tools required for developing applications in J2EE, J2SE and J2ME. Our course kit includes extensive practical oriented training pointing real-world problems that help students to gain industry exposure and confidence to work with any job requirements. Java Training in Chennai at FITA will keep the syllabus updated with the latest changes in the industry and impart quality education through the expert trainers. Java courses in Chennai at FITA branches are offered by experienced IT professionals with 12+ years of real-time experience in software development industry. Our trainers have strong experience in Java software development so that best quality training is guaranteed. We offer professional training in Java technologies by Java experts with the objective to bridge the gap between college education and IT Industry. After completing Java Training in Chennai in our institution, we offer 100% placement and Java certification support to all our students. This unique approach makes us the best Java training in Chennai. Get Trained at FITA and become a JAVA Guru! Video Testimonials Phone +91 98404 11333 Enquire Now Click Why Choose FITA For Your JAVA/J2EE Training Best institution for Java Training in Chennai Practical training by working professionals from leading IT companies Learn by working on real-time Java projects Interactive online training sessions allowing complete interactivity between the student and the trainer Flexible Timings - Weekday, Weekend & Fast-track Tips and discussion to build your technical interview skills Placement tie-up with more than 550+ companies in Chennai Below is the High Level JAVA course syllabus that can be altered to meet your needs. Please walk into FITA T Nagar or Thoraipakkam or Velachery or Anna Nagar or Tambaram branch for a detailed JAVA Syllabus. Java Training In Chennai Course Syllabus Core JAVA Our core java training in Chennai module begins with introduction to java, OOPS concepts, semantics, multi-threading, constructors, GUI programming, exception handling, applets, etc. Kindly speak to our Education Counselors for the detailed and best Java training course syllabus Java Basics Oops Concepts Data types, Variables, Methods, Operators Class and Objects Constructor Packages Access Specifiers & Modifiers Access Levels Arrays Encapsulation Encapsulation Polymorphism Abstraction Interfaces Casting Wrapper classes Exception Handling Garbage Collection Collection Framework Java I/O Java Threads String, Stringbuffer and String Builder Java Beans Java Networking SQL and PL/SQL JDBC J2EE Training In Chennai People with basic experience in JAVA and want to go beyond with a deeper knowledge, undergo JAVA J2EE Training in Chennai from FITA. J2EE (Java 2 Enterprise edition) is an environment for deploying and developing enterprise applications. It is used for distribution in a large scale smart network and web services. J2EE is platform independent and has set of services, API (Application Programming Interface), and protocols for developing multi-tiered, Web based application. J2EE consists of the servlet, framework, JDBC, JQUERY, JSP and much more. Some of the topics are discussed below. J2EE SERVLETS AJAX EXPRESSION LANGUAGE JSTL HTML JAVASCRIPT JDBC EJB HTML5 JQUERY JSP MVC FRAMEWORKS HIBERNATE STRUTS SPRING J2EE is a vast topic which can be discussed in our J2EE training institute in Chennai. To know more about the concepts and technology, you can undergo J2EE Courses in Chennai by our professional experts in FITA. EJB Enterprise JavaBeans components EJB component implementation EJB component types Stateful session beans Stateless session beans Entity beans EJB transaction attributes values EJB container services Spring Framework Struts Framework Hibernate Framework What Will You Learn From Java Training In Chennai? Get in-depth skills on how to program with Java To learn advanced concepts of Java Threading and Multi-threading To know the Advanced JDBC and Advanced Java File IO techniques. Enhance the knowledge to thoroughly use the JDK framework to create Java application. To learn how to implement standard SQL queries to integrate with databases Learn client-server interaction through sockets Remote Method Invocation (RMI) Learn how to use collection to store and manage data Scope Of JAVA Everybody must agree to the fact that the Java is one of the best things happened in the IT industry. It has a sustaining eco-system right from the mobility to the middleware. As it is platform independent many users choose Java to work with and it is considered as a user-friendly platform. Presently Java is the most preferred coding language in the entire IT sector and also among developers and no doubt it would have the same place in future as well. Right from the beginning of the career Java developers will have a decent package and they get a very good pay once they get succeeded in their first project. If you have a proper technical knowledge with a valid certification from any of the well-reputed institution, you can fetch a great job in this Java field, just for this reason many people prefer taking Java Training in Chennai. There are lots of onsite jobs available for Java developers and if you choose to get J2EE Training in Chennai and Java as your working field then you can fly to abroad for your job. To achieve all these you must have clear knowledge in Java and it is recommended to take up a good J2EE Training in Chennai who could teach you all the concepts in depth. And the other important fact is that Java field is one among the highest paid jobs in the IT sector. So, without any further delay, it is better to get jobs in Java by taking up Java Course in Chennai. Even though various programming languages are evolving in the recent days, Java is considered to be the most wanted high level language to build various applications which are very useful. Java Classes in Chennai demands the highest position in the Job market because many MNCs require persons with Java knowledge and good skill sets in it. To enhance your knowledge and for your career growth, enroll now for the best Java Training in Chennai. Recommended by Students as No 1 JAVA Training Institute in Chennai! JAVA Industry Updates Trends In Java In recent times, Java has evolved into one of the top-rated programming languages among various organizations in the market. There is a consistent release of updates related to Java due to its depth of features, stability along with predictability. It has made it easy for developers to accomplish their task on time. Apart from the developers, even the organizations are making it into their upcoming applications. Get involved in Java by joining our Java Training in Chennai. There has been an enormous feature that has made it reach the top on the list. Some of them are enlisted below: Independent of the platform- It can be run over any system due to the presence of intermediate format. The developers can write the program once in Java language and will be able to execute it on various platforms such as Linux, Windows, or Mac without the necessity of re-compilation. Familiar- Java is nearly the same as that of C/C++ and is deployed for fixing the disadvantages occurring due to the latter. Therefore, if the developer is well-versed with C/C++ language then might be very simple for them get along with Java. High performance- It yields relatively high performance when compared with other languages. Moreover, it is possible to write computer intensive code that can be interfaced with the Java platform in order to improvise the performance with the use of Java Native Interface. Multithreaded- This platform is designed along with multithreading capabilities for built-up into the language, which means the developer will be able to build applications with different concurrent threads of activity that results in highly responsive applications. Robust- It is considered to be very strong with the collection of garbage in an automated way with complex free memory management. Thus, it is preferred by the companies. Secure- It is designed in such a way that it aids the user in implementing their creativity for various applications. It is very tough for any virus to affect applications built by deploying Java. Be a pro in Java by enrolling yourself into our Java Course in Chennai. This year’s latest release in Java is Java 10, and Java 11. However, support for all the older versions is estimated to end by 2020. In addition, JDK 11 is the one which has been planned to get the long term support provided by Oracle. Java 9 It was released in September 2017 making significant changes along with necessary updates to Java 8. The most important update amidst them is considered to be the new architecture along with a different structure to Java. It makes use of a modular structure rather than making use of the traditional model. The advantage of modularity is the ability in setting up customized configurations of various modules and removal of any unnecessary modules. That could greatly increase the efficiency along with the scalability in various apps built over Java. The eventual goal of modularity push is to make Java more approachable to smaller-scale machines, particularly smartphones. Second, the most important improvement is the function of JShell Read-Eval-Print-Loop. Moreover, developers are able to now get immediate feedback on how the code is working. For getting more knowledge in Java join FITA, best Java Training Institute in Chennai. Java 10 Its release happened in March 2018 not more than six months after the launch of Java 9. It didn’t make any crucial change but was helpful for some basic issues to be fixed. And the very crucial feature was the inclusion of new garbage interface for its collection in Java 10, which organizes and also concentrates source code for the collection of the collection into a single place instead of scattered the files and patching throughout the environment. This new version of Java also made inferences about the variable type when the developer makes use of the “var” keyword. Java 11 This is the latest version that has been released this year in the month of September, which marks the deadline of a monumental shift in the Java ecosystem. Some of the preplanned updates included in this are standard browser updates along with upgrading the Java to Unicode 10, which was previously making use of Unicode 8. Java 11 will definitely help the developers to get rid of the support for Java EE along with the COBRA modules. Since the new long-term release of support for Java 11 it has been considered as a standardized improvement from the previous versions such as Java 9 and 10, which applies to the customers with commercial support from Oracle. In addition, public updates related to Java 11 will come to end after a period of six months when the next version Java 12 will be released into the market. JDK 11 is elegant light on the things that modify the way of coding by developers. Some of the new trends in the market for JDK 11 are listed below: JDK 11 new string methodology Pattern with predicate utility methods is Empty Files utility method Epsilon garbage collector Time unit convert Latest Frameworks Of Java Virtual Machine There are so many virtual machine languages for java like Clojure, Groovy, JRuby, Jython, Kotlin, and Scala. These languages have been evolving in the software industry for a relatively long time and let us have a look at the new JVM languages as of 2019. JVM is the virtual language of java which is designed for the java machines and it changes the java code into byte code. Join the best Java Training to know about the multiple perspectives of a programming language like JVM, JDK, and JRE. Java programmers are using these JVM languages for the development due to certain positives. The advantages of JVM over java are in JVM the functions are used as parameters; high-level complicated functions are easily handled with the parameterization, case matching and compact code, and the functions of the compiler. Join Java Training in Porur to be confident in the multiple concepts in the language. Programmers use primary languages and secondary languages in their coding and make their builds as an efficient one. The knowledge about multiple languages has become the predefined criteria for an experienced developer. Let us have a look at the Scala, Kotlin and Groovy programming language for the JVM as they are widely used. Class loader, method area, JVM language stacks, heap, native method stacks, PC registers, native method stacks, execution engine, native method interface, and native method libraries are the components which form the architecture of JVM. Join the best JAVA Training Institute in Chennai to gain the knowledge from the expert trainers from the scratch to the advanced level. Scala Scala was introduced to the industry in the year 2008 by the Martin Odersky. Scala is largely used in the data science projects and it is written to target the Java virtual machine. Scala developers do not have the need to learn the other programming languages but due to the announcement from Google for the spring and Google, the Scala is now replaced for the Kotlin. Some of the features of Scala were introduced in Lambdas and Stream. Scala is a very good language to learn for the Java developers. Play, AKKA, and spark are the popular frameworks of the Scala. Learning a new language boost the knowledge about the different data structure, coding designs, different types of the algorithm, and different approaches to the problem. So learning new languages like Scala will help the programmers to write code better, read the better code, debug code and run the code quickly. Java Training with the Best Java Training Institute in Chennai makes your bio-data with high priority due to the programming language knowledge. Many giant companies like Uber, Sony, Amazon, and Autodesk are using the Scala language to enhance customer satisfaction with a wide range of reachable services. Scala is the perfect blend of the functional programming and the object-oriented programming. The parts of java language where some restrictions are levied are unleashed in the Scala language which increases the productivity. Some of the good features in the Scala language is immutable data structures with no effects on the environment, the simple one-liner language with less punctuation, short syntax, condensing map and filter, and finally, the code will support both the multiple inheritances and different types of capabilities. Kotlin In the year 2011, JVM language Kotlin was introduced and this is the official language for the Android development. The announcement regarding kotlin was made by Google in the year 2017. Kotlin is the language alternatively used for Java and it is the official language for android. Kotlin was designed by the company called Jet brains and it is used as an open source platform by the programmers. The simplicity in the language made this language as a popular language. For instance fun keywords are used in the Kotlin, semicolons which are mandatory in the java are optional in the Kotlin language. The keywords and ranges are well used in the Kotlin language. Java Classes in Chennai offers the training to make the learning curve flat from the upsurge. Functional programming and object-oriented programming are two different concepts in the programming world. In functional programming functions cannot be stored in objects and in object-oriented programming, the programming is based on objects. For the programs which can be divided into smaller parts, object-oriented programs yield better results. Join the Best JAVA Training in Chennai and become a professional with high salary package in the industry. When converting the java program into kotlin it is clearly known that kotlin is handy language it supports the object-oriented nature of java. The other classes inherit with the keywords in the Kotlin classes whereas in the case of Java the final keyword is marked as inheritable. In the case of overriding the methods are marked as open and the subclass is marked as an override. The Kotlin makes the things explicit and it is not operated with the default operations. JAVA Training in Chennai is for the beginners and experienced with ample interest into the coding. The checked exceptions in Java are lacking in the kotlin. The expenditure on using Java and kotlin is the same. The java set only properties are easily fixed in the Kotlin. Some of the new things in kotlin for the Java developers in Kotlin are the extension functions, support functional programming and add coroutines. Java Training in T.Nagar is the best place for learning and understanding the difference between the multiple programming languages. There are similarities in between Scala and Kotlin like the notations like immutable declarations using va1, mutable declarations using var, narrow in the declaration of lambda function, and the usage of a single arrow and double arrow. The getters and setters are available in a java class and calling the java code from the kotlin language work well in the applications. These features are common in Java and kotlin and the name for getter and setter in Kotlin is properties. JAVA Training in Adyar focus the syllabus with the latest updates from the industry and provides the training needed to clear the interview with less effort. Groovy Groovy is simple language than Java and it is used for unit testing and for the virtual machine language. Groovy first version which is Groovy 1.0 was released in the year 2007 and the second version which is Groovy 2.0 was released in the year 2012. Java Training in Tambaram is designed to satisfy the learning needs of the people staying at Tambaram. For the Java developers, the learning curve for Groovy is flat and the behavior of Groovy is simple to understand for Java developer. For instance, in Groovy the operators call equals() method but will not compare the instances. J Unit along with Groovy syntax is used for the testing process. Java Training in OMR has a good track record for the training and placement in the training industry. The Spock is the framework which is used to write the better testing scripts with the Groovy. For parameterized tests, it gives a graphical representation. Groovy is suitable for the scripting language and for the testing projects. Java collections, string, array, Regexp, iterable, object and char sequence are some of the new additions in the Groovy which has to be learned and explored. Learn the Groovy language and project yourself with multiple language knowledge in the biodata to derive a good impression in the job hunt. Java Training in Anna Nagar at FITA gives you the clear virtual picture about the different concepts in the language and helps every individual students to get placed in the respective domains. Tools Knowledge Needed For Java Developer As Of 2019 The job of the developer is not only confined to the development of the application but also the knowledge of different frameworks, libraries, tools, and architectural designs is essential. Enhancing the knowledge from the perspective of the market demand is the right dimension which makes the programmers as the expert programmers. Join the JAVA Training at FITA and boost your programming skills to become the expert in the industry. Let me see some of the tools which are based on java and shed light on the wide usage of these tools in the software industry in recent days. IDE, unit test library, embedded web servers and in-memory database, Yourkit, Mockito, findBugs, Jira, Git, Jenkins, Selenium, Groovy, Spock, Maven, Gradle, docker and linux are some of the tools as of 2019 require the java knowledge. JAVA Training Institute in Chennai is designed with a motto to train the candidates with the latest changes in the industry and solve the unemployment problems. To master the knowledge it is essential to learn about the importance of these tools which gives an idea of the usage of Java language. It is difficult to track the fault in the web application and it can be from software, hardware, back end, external factor or internal factor. Using the tools help for the quality of the deliverables. Find below the list of the top tools which requires java basics and the knowledge of these tools are needed to capture the high profile jobs as of 2019 for a java developer. JIRA JIRA is used for bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management. JIRA creates the spring cycles to track the process and progress in software development. Mastering the skills to use the JIRA help the developers to acquire the skills to plan, track, and manage all the agile software development projects. Scrum, Kanban, Agile at scale and mixed methodologies are the frameworks for the usage of the JIRA software tool. Best Java Training Institutes make the students well into the subject by creating the interest from the practical approach. GIT GIT is the version control software tool and it is used to track the changes in the set of files or source code. The branching capabilities in the GIT tool help to have centralized version control and the code base is isolated from the development environment to track the changes. If there is a change in the version of the software, change in the document used for the development, change in the large websites then these changes are accordingly handled by the GIT tool. Java Training is the best training to handle the multiple projects or challenges in the job for a beginner. Jenkins Continuous integration and continuous delivery are important parts of software development to maintain the quality in the software development project. Compiling projects, running unit tests, integration tests, generating documentation, and uploading artifacts are the non-human part of the software development which is taken care by the Jenkins tool. It is easy to make changes in the software development with the Jenkins tool and it has a plug-in to support the continuous integration process in the software development. Java Classes in Chennai provides flexible timings and makes the students learn with comfort in a friendly environment. Selenium Selenium is the best tool for the Java developers to automate the HTML and JSP files. It is also used for the web browser automation. Selenium is the tool which is used along with the Java, Ruby, and Python and C #. Best Java Training in Chennai creates the best reputation from the students and designs the syllabus with the student’s interest and industrial demand. Groovy Groovy is the tool which supports for the testing and development. The syntax of the Groovy tool is used to run the tests in the integrated development environments. Apache Groovy is gaining popularity among the java programmers because it is object-oriented dynamic programming language for the Java virtual machine. Groovy support for the static typing, groovy support for the dynamic typing, the syntax of Groovy is direct, brief and concise, it is used to do the unit testing in development, the native syntax for the lists and associative arrays is helpful for the threads, supports the XML and HTML, it is suitable for domain-specific languages like Java, C, and C++. Java Training in T.Nagar provides the quality education to the residents of t.nagar. Spock Spock is the tool used by the Java developers for the java applications and Groovy applications. Spock is called as specification language as it is written in Groovy. Spock is used for the continuous integration servers, build tools and it is compatible with the IDEs. Skills needed for a developer are unit testing knowledge, front end technologies knowledge, big data knowledge, full stack knowledge, and DevOps knowledge. The developers need to understand the software layer and the presentation layer to improve the user experience and nail towards perfection. Java Training in Adyar indulges the happiness of learning among the students in an around Adyar with the quality education. Maven Maven is used for the project management and reporting tool. The Project object model which is called as POM is used to manage the build, reporting, and documentation with the information processed. Maven downloads JAR by default and it is helpful to use the third party libraries. Maven takes care of the dependency management and takes standardize the logical relationship between the activities. Gradle Gradle is the build tool for the Android and open source tool for the automation system. It makes use of the domain specific language and it makes the configuration part easy. This is considered the best build tool for java because it has flexibility and control of Ant, makes the configuration easy, and the dependency management is supported by the ivy. It is one of the tools used by the users for a relatively long period. Java Training in Porur imposes the standard in the training with the constant changes in the syllabus and handout material to the students. Docker Docker is the open source used for the physical or cloud environment for the deployment of the application. It helps to run the distributed applications on the laptops, data centers, VM’s and cloud. It works well with the windows, Linux and cloud systems. Docker is used for the testing, deployment and continuous integration. IntelliJ IDEA provides the support to the docker tool and it is the official plugin for the Java developers. Oracle beans are the tool for the application development on windows, mac, Linux and Solaris operating system. The latest version of the Oracle Beans is included with the Docker tool. Docker provides browser-based IDE for RESTful web API. Linux Linux is the best operating system to learn along with java as a beginner. Arch Linux, Debian, Ubuntu, SUSE, Fedora, and Gentoo are the popular distributions of Linux. Ubuntu is the most highly used system for java development. These distributions are used to set up the environment and develop the coding with compatibility. Arch Linux is simple and the structure is easy to shape the system as per our own needs. Debian is used in case of lower level sources with minimum friction between the workflow and working code. The metadata repository and the source or build cohesion is good in the debain operating system. Ubuntu and Linux Mint are the best tools. Proprietary software is installed into the Ubuntu and it uses a fork of GNOME 3. Open SUSE has amazing features for the troubleshooting the bugs and it works flawlessly. Fedora is a friendly tool and it is a straight forward tool with web-based and text-based interfaces. Java Training in Tambaram is the best training for the students with interest in the Java programming. IDE Eclipse IDE check the code, do refactoring and check the syntax of the code. It offers support to multiple languages like C, C++, and PHP. Unit test library Junit is the unit testing framework which helps to test the code and it helps to track the bugs in the functionalities of the web page. Using JUnit testers can run a block of codes and sometimes do the testing to write the code. Thus it helps for the quality of code at the back of the web application. Java Training in OMR is the best training before taking up the interviews for the java developer jobs. Your Kit Your kit is the tool for the java profiler and it is used to monitor the remote application. The UI of the web application runs on the developer machine and the server machine. The profiler agent is attached to the JVM and also to the welcome screen to monitor the functions, web performance of the concern page. Java Training in Anna Nagar is the training with high demand for the beginners as well as experienced professionals. Mockito Mockito is designed for the mock test which creates the mock test, verifies the mock test and stub the mock test. If the API used in the Java language is simple then this library can be used to avoid the verification errors. Find Bugs Find bugs are used for the automation and it is a free, easy and good tool for the software. Join the Java Training at FITA and extend the opportunities in the multiple domains of placement. The ultimate aim of the training is to place the students and make the students enjoy the job with passion towards learning. Java is the statistically build language and its wide usage in multiple industries demand for the Java developers from the training industry. Many Android applications are written in Java, popular trading application like murex is written in Java, many big giant companies like Google, Amazon and flip kart use java, it provides good security over the run time environment, and as the learning community of java is huge the possibilities of affecting virus or harms is less when using the Java platform. All these benefits made java as the best language and the constant innovations in the software frameworks, libraries, tools, and architectural designs make the java developers as the skilled personnel’s over the other professionals. Hence, the scope for Java developers will always be a place to explore your coding ability and will act as a ladder to raise the height with respect to your is despite the reason there is numerous language available for coding organizations are looking forward to skillful Java programmers. Expectations with JDK 13 JDK is expected in the year 2019 with many attributes and the developers are focused towards quality before the release. The multiple lines of source code are covered by raw string and it is the new attribute expected from the JDK 13. Rawstring is a literal with string in which the escaping rules are eliminated and everything is literal or direct. This is the feature which is expected with the JDK 12 and it is postponed to JDK 13. The characters with the sequence are described without java indicators and these strings are focused towards grammar apart from Java. After the testing process the new attributes are added to the JDK 13 with the quality in the production. JDK 14 is expected with high quality with the raw string after its first release. Let us take a look at how the raw string makes the functions of java simpler. Join the Java Training in Chennai at FITA to explore the new trends in Java the legendary technology. Simplification is the most needed part in the programming language which derived through the library and the JDK code. Simple codes and readable codes are enhanced for the back end support to optimize the performance. The feature of multi-line raw string is available in many other languages like Groovy, Java script and Python for the enhancement of the performance. This reduces the usage of the java escapes and the java line terminator for keeping the character sequence readable with the code. The concept of string interpolation is not added to the raw string and in future it is expected to take part in the raw string. Some of the advantages of these strings are already added in the RSL and some are not added. The enhancements can be with the line support, trim, and margin management and escape management by using raw string. Beta implementation is added in the JDK and switch expressions is added which help for the behavior with control over the flow. This helps for the blocking of calls, synchronous and makes the blocking as free.Java Course in Chennai at FITA is conducted with veteran trainers who are from the top software companies with good record of performance. Pending releases of Java Project loom is the other feature which is not added to the Java fully and this helps for optimizing the performance with the simple abstraction and leaves less number of footprints. This manages the threads efficiently and it introduces the fibers as light weight with the usage of JVM. The memory and the task switching with the fibers are almost close to zero.The ultimate need of this is to add the light weight thread to the java eco system. The java program is designed to use the threads easily and the primitives are synchronized with this. If there is mismatch in the orders then it is difficult to handle for the server. Integration with the other language and integration with the code is one of the important functions which API should have. Many asynchronous API are created in the Java ecosystem to handle the integration part in Java.It helps to run the existing code and reduces the time also. the REST service or servlet takes more time when compared to this. Records This feature help for POJO class and it makes the coding part with this easier.Java Training in Chennai is highly demanded as many projects are based out of java. Future of Java Java is used for the web development, mobile development and the desktop development. Cross platform mobile apps are developed using the java platform with the help of SDK. Java standard libraries, Maven, JHipster, Guava, apache commons, hibernate-ORM, Junit, Mockito, log4j, google-gson, and SIf4j are the wide range of libraries available in java for the making the complex part in the coding easy.There are troubles in moving from the versions like the 8 to 12 or 11. The version change is a problem in the software industry with respect to the investment and it demands to change the whole functionalities. Simplification for the container management and the version change are given more importance when thinking about the future of Java. Competition with JVM is initialized by the other languages like the kotlin and scala. Learn Java Course in Chennai to enter in to the vast industry as many other technologies need java background. Powerful languages are needed to empower the emerging technologies like Artificial intelligence and machine learning and thus Java is demanded to build the complicated large systems. The coding simplification, changes in the data objects and data types help for the innovation of the new technologies. The research and production team java told that there will be a released for every 6 months to widen the usage and bridge the gap in the issues with the language. The legacy technologies support the emerging technologies to make the support for the business and technology in multiple ways. Java Training in Chennai is designed for the beginners and experienced like the model is basic level course and the advance level course. Do not wait anymore! Call Us @ 98404-11333 to know more about JAVA J2EE Training in Chennai. You can also contact us by submitting the Quick Enquiry form on the right side of this page to know more about the JAVA Course in Chennai. Other Recommended Java Trainings Struts Training in Chennai Hibernate Training in Chennai Spring Training in Chennai FAQ Why Should I Learn Java Course At FITA? Java Course at FITA is designed & conducted by Java experts with 12+ years of experience in the Java domain Only institution in Chennai with the right blend of theory & practical sessions In-depth Course coverage for 60+ Hours More than 20,000+ students trust FITA Affordable fees keeping students and IT working professionals in mind Course timings designed to suit working professionals and students Interview tips and training Resume building support Real-time projects and case studies Will FITA Help Me With Placements After My Java Course Completion? We are happy and proud to say that we have strong relationship with over 600+ small, mid-sized and MNCs. Many of these companies have openings for Java analyst. Moreover, we have a very active placement cell that provides 100% placement assistance to our students. The cell also contributes by training students in mock interviews and discussions even after the course completion. How Do I Enroll For The Java Course At FITA? You can contact our support number at 98404 11333 or directly walkin to one of the FITA branches in Chennai or Coimbatore Can I Enrol In Any Of The FITA Branches In Chennai? The syllabus and teaching methodology is standardized across all our branches in Chennai. We also have a FITA branch in Coimbatore. However, the batch timings may differ according to the type of students who present themselves. How Many Students Have Been Trained By FITA Up Till Now? We are proud to state that in the last 7+ years of our operations we have trained over 20,000+ aspirants to well-employed IT professionals in various IT companies. How Old Is FITA? We have been in the training field for close to a decade now. We set up our operations in the year 2012 by a group of IT veterans to offer world class IT training. What Will Be The Size Of A Java Batch At FITA? We at FITA believe in giving individual attention to students so that they will be in a position to clarify all the doubts that arise in complex and difficult topics. Therefore, we restrict the size of each Android batch to 5 or 6 members. How Equipped Are The Java Faculties At FITA? Our Java faculty members are industry experts who have extensive experience in the field handing real-time application and completing mega real-time projects in related areas like Spring, Strus and Hibernate in different sectors of the industry. The students can rest assured that they are being taught by the best of the best from the Java industry. Will I Be Given Sufficient Practical Training In Java? Our courseware is designed to give a hands-on approach to the students in Java. The course is made up of theoretical classes that teach the basics of each module followed by high-intensity practical sessions reflecting the current challenges and needs of the industry that will demand the students’ time and commitment. What Are The Payment Modes Accepted At FITA? We accept Cash, Card, Bank transfer and G Pay. What are the objectives of JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA? Java training in Chennai at FITA has been curated by professionals according to the latest requirements in the industry. We provide training to impart comprehensive knowledge to the students both in the basic and advanced concepts of Core Java and J2EE and make the student a consummate Java professional. The Java Course at FITA Chennai has been designed by expert instructors in a manner to enable the students to gain practical knowledge from real-life examples. The following are the ultimate course objectives of the Core Java and J2EE training in FITA Chennai: For students, we have designed the core Java and J2EE programming course to make the students understand programming fundamentals and object-oriented programming so that they can invoke class libraries, functions, and methods to solve problems with ease or set up applications. They become aware of the important principles of software development using Java and will develop the expertise to work in the Java SDK environment to create, debug and run programs.  For working professionals, the course is intended to help them to direct a shift from the current domain to the Java domain and get comfortable with the latest Java technologies.  Why should you attend Java certification training at FITA Chennai? The Java Training in Chennai at FITA has been developed by certified professional experts who have many years of experience in the industry. We have designed the courseware to help the students learn from the fundamentals to advanced concepts in a step-by-step manner. The course is replete with practical examples instead of just theory and programs are worded to solve real-life problems. We have designed the syllabus to match the current requirements of the industry. At FITA, we have well-equipped labs with the latest software versions and advanced facilities to aid the students in applying theoretical knowledge to learn easily and efficiently with practical experience. The students are allowed unlimited usage of the laboratory facilities. We offer training sessions at convenient timings according to the needs of students and working professionals. Thus we conduct both weekday and weekend classes. We offer placement assistance to every student and they can reach back to the mentor/training faculty with problems even after completion of the course. All these facilities are offered to the student at the most competitive rates to provide the best value for the money. Who can attend JAVA Certification Training? The Java course in Chennai at FITA helps professionals and students who aspire to become Java developers, programmers, web developers, database administrators, web designers, and programming hobbyists to acquire industry-relevant skills in Java and excel in their career. This course covers core as well as advanced concepts of Java such as Java Array, Collections, Threads, Database connectivity, Exception Handling, Servlets, XML handling, and JSP. Also, the course covers various Java frameworks such as Spring and Hibernate. FITA provides the best Java Training in Velachery which is designed to bridge the gap between academic education and the needs of the IT industry. The syllabus includes practical-oriented training enabling the learners to handle real-world situations. There are no prerequisites to join this course but it is beneficial to have some understanding of object-oriented programming. How will JAVA Certification Training help your Career? Java is the IT industry’s main axle as it supports its ecosystem starting from mobility through middleware. Moreover, it is by far the most preferred language when it comes to coding. The applications developed using Java are employed in several devices such as smartphones, computers, laptops, media players, and car navigation systems, among many others. This means that there is a huge demand for certified Java developers. Java comes with many open source libraries. This makes the development process swift and affordable. Further, you start earning a good salary right from the start of your career as a certified Java developer. In today’s world, it is all about data. To create even a small web application for a cell phone or a large enterprise, Java and J2EE are extensively used because it is simple and easy, object-oriented, secure, robust, portable, architecture-neutral. Finally, completing Java Training in Anna Nagar at FITA institute enables you to land in your dream job since our course provides extensive hands-on training to equip you to meet the tough demands of the corporate world. What are the eligibility criteria for JAVA Certification Training? Enterprise Java developers are in high demand today in the IT job marketplace. Professionals differentiate themselves from their peer programmers by getting certified in Java EE edition. But what do you need to enroll for this certification course? Any Java instruction program is available to any individual with a secondary school certificate. If you are one, then you can become a certificate holder in Java programming. However, to enroll for a Java programmer, it is important for you to enroll for a holistic course in Java programming.  If you are a graduate in math/science/engineering discipline, you are well-suited for this course.  The programming course will teach you to perform advanced programming jobs.  In case you are on the lookout to master web applications development on any platform, then this certification is definitely for you. In case you are opting to learn Java EE, then prior knowledge of Core Java is a prerequisite. You can opt for our Core Java course to get a grip on the fundamentals of this language. Basic knowledge of programming logic and some familiarity with the C language is likely to help. In addition to these, a student would need good communication skills to technically document the Java programs and good interpersonal skills to work with a programming team in the future.  Why is getting trained in Java very Important? There are some solid reasons why Java is continuously performing well for a long time. For these reasons and others, it is important that you get trained in Java programming. Java is platform-independent, which means that a Java program can run on any platform, on any OS and any machine architecture. This means the code need not be modified and is thus a great time saver. Java is a very secure language and this is perhaps the reason why most banking applications are written using Java. Java allows multiple threads to execute simultaneously and provides improved performance. This is the reason why Java is preferred to many other languages. As Java finds tremendous use in enterprise applications development, its importance is still growing and it makes sense for a programming enthusiast to master Java language.  There are numerous resources to learn Java in-depth and this is yet another reason for its popularity and importance.  The number of job opportunities for those with sound knowledge in Java is very high. The popularity of Android apps has provided an opportunity for the interested to write native apps in Java. Java training in Porur at FITA helps the learners to acquire the necessary skills in Java to succeed in their career. Top reasons to consider a career in Java Opportunities for career for a Java programmer /developer are excellent. At this juncture, it is important to remember that the role of a Java developer is much more than just Java coding. In most organizations, the development of the software is an integral part of the engineering/business process. However, your qualifications, experience, and interest also matter. With the right talent and combination, there is a good chance that an experienced Java developer can advance into senior technical or management roles in the future.  The other top reasons to become a Java developer are:   Java is one of the most popular and widely used languages for programming as it is easy to learn.   As a Java developer, there is more to it than just coding.   Java has powerful tools that can be used; it is platform-independent.   As a Java developer, you have to be in constant collaboration with other professionals which helps to develop other skills.   Java is widely used in many real-life applications.   Any individual can aspire to become a Java developer.   Java is likely to last for a long time. What is the duration for a Java course? The diploma level certificate course in Java that we offer extends for up to six months. With a little bit of prior knowledge in C/C++ programming, a few weeks are sufficient to master the nuances in Java.  In case you are a beginner, you need to invest around 3-6 months to be good at programming. Java is a language with extensive capabilities and is exhaustive with its vast collection of libraries and functions.  To become familiar with the basics it can take up to 10 weeks of experience. To become an expert Java programmer, you may need a few years. Java training in Chennai at FITA helps you to transform from an amateur programmer to a professional programming expert.  What does Java do and why do I need it? Java is a popular programming language that developers use for creating applications on different platforms like Mac, Linux, and Windows. These programs are typically independent of the platform they run in which accounts for their popularity.  Java programs can also be integrated into websites. A majority of the banking applications run on Java. It is an object-oriented programming language that eases the development of applications and can be used to create reusable code.  Java can be used to create programs that run on a single computer or even be distributed on a network of computers of servers and clients. You can easily learn Java because it is a simple language and most popular in recent times. Learning Java can open the gateway of job opportunities and reach top positions in their careers.  Entering the market 23 years ago, Java is still a popular programming language and worth learning since it is used by programmers and professionals worldwide.  Android applications are coded in Java and these reasons enough to learn Java even today. FITA provides the best Java Training in Chennai with multiple branches at Velachery, Anna Nagar, T Nagar, Thoraipakkam, Porur, and Tambaram. Call 98404-11333 for more details about Java training in Chennai and Coimbatore as well. What is the relationship between Oracle and Java? The Oracle Corporation owns Java today. This happened after they purchased Sun Microsystems in the recent past. The Oracle is RDBMS software, whereas Java is a programming language and they both cannot be considered for comparison. To access Oracle databases in Java applications, the JDBC API is used.   Oracle is an ORDBMS (Object Relational Database Management System) that works on a multitude of platforms. Different versions of Oracle are capable of running as standalone applications for personal use or in multiple computers for enterprise-level applications. Oracle is the most popular database systems and Java is the most widely used programming languages. The Oracle databases can be accessed by a variety of programming languages and Java is one of them. One can write programs in Java to communicate with Oracle databases. Candidates interested to learn Oracle can join Oracle training in Chennai at FITA to excel as a software engineer. FITA has been regarded as the best Java training institute in Chennai, with thousands of students making successful careers through FITA. How long would it take to master Java If you have some familiarity with C/C++ programming, then it is easy to learn to code in Java. You can probably start writing programs in a few weeks. If you are not at all familiar with object-oriented programming languages, it will be anywhere between 2 and 6 months before you write bigger programs using Java.  Java is a very extensive language with a variety of libraries that can be used to increase the functionality of the programs. It takes quite a while for a programmer to master these capabilities of Java.  Ultimately, the amount of time that you would take to learn a programming language depends on the time you put into learning the language and practicing to solve problems by building programs with that language. If you are a person with a high level of passion for learning the language, you can start executing real-life projects in about 6 to 8 months.  Java training in Chennai at FITA provides you with round-the-clock lab facilities equipped with the latest software and hardware tools to learn Java quickly and effectively. Which Java Certification course should I do? Oracle Java Certification exams are designed to test your capabilities and knowledge to perform jobs in the Java industry. The four levels of Java certifications are: Oracle Certified Associate (OCA) Oracle Certified Professional (OCP) Oracle Certified Expert (OCE) Oracle Certified Master (OCM) There are different levels under each certification path. Each of these certifications has different versions for Java SE and Java EE.  To clear the Java certification exams, you need to have a thorough understanding of all the Java technologies. It is also important that you are familiar with the type of questions asked and gain enough practice solving them to pass the certification exams.  The OCA and OCP exams would give you a fair idea of the programming fundamentals. OCA is the entry-level exam and it is mandatory to clear this exam to write any of the other certification exams.  The OCE exams are the expert level exams. Different expert level exams are designed to hone your skills. If you have been programming in Java for more than ten years, then you can attempt the OCM exams. These exams do not require any basic exam as a mandatory certification. You can directly appear for the OCM exam and clearing the exams certifies your ability to handle any kind of project in Java.  Java Certification course in Chennai at FITA has been widely acknowledged by top MNC hiring candidates skilled in Java. FITA has more than 600+ tie-ups with medium scale to large scale IT companies who hire Java Developers, widening the opportunities for the candidates to land in their dream job. Call 98404-11333 for more details about Java training in Chennai and Coimbatore as well. What is the best way to learn advanced Java? Advanced Java is primarily used to build enterprise-level applications using Java. Advanced Java includes topics such as Servlets, JSP, JDBC, EJB, Beans and web services. There are a few ways in which you can learn advanced Java in Chennai at FITA.  First, learn Java basics with us at Chennai FITA. Do the Core and Advanced Java courses with us. Alongside, refer to good books on Java by using our library facilities. After becoming thorough with writing small Java programs, we will help you to write advanced programs using Java APIs.  We provide the students with many projects during the course. This builds confidence in you to create one desktop and one web application on your own. You can use our advanced lab facilities 24/7. You can reach back to our faculty to clear all your doubts even after the completion of the course.  We give you all the assistance and guidance that is required to appear for the different Java certification examinations. Java Training in Chennai at FITA helps to improve your calibre in java by training in advanced Java tools and techniques. What are the best books for learning Java? As an aspiring Java programmer, some of the best books you can refer to for learning Java are listed below. #1: Java – The Complete Reference Herbert Shildt, author of Java – The Complete Reference, has written the book in such a way that it is helpful to beginners as well as advanced Java programmers. It covers most of Java core topics. #2: Effective Java Effective Java by Joshua Bloch is one of the best Java books and it is helpful for Java programmers of different experience levels where you can learn not only about Java but also its API. He has authored several other books and Effective Java Third Edition covers Java versions 7, 8, and 9. #3: Clean Code Clean is a classic when it comes to Java programming. Written by Robert C. Martin it is a must-read as far as Java programmers are concerned. This book helps you to write better code using strong OOP principles. Java Training in Chennai at FITA enables the learners to skill themselves with industry-relevant skills in Java for a successful career as a Java developer. Training provided by professionals with more than a decade of experience in Java guides the students to learn the updated methods and techniques used by Java professionals. Call 98404-11333 for more details about Java training in Chennai and Coimbatore as well. How to learn basic Java programming? Java is by far the most secure and powerful programming language available at present. Though it was introduced two decades ago its usage in a wide range of areas starting from mobile phones to large supercomputers is increasing. It is quite easy to learn Java programming, but you need proper guidance to write codes efficiently. You can enroll for Java Training in Chennai at FITA, the best IT and language training institute. We offer: Training by experienced professionals from leading technology companies (bridges the gap between college education and demands of the IT Industry) Hands-on practical training; you get an opportunity to work on real-time Java projects Interactive training sessions Flexible Timings – Weekday, Weekend, and Fast-track Placement opportunities; we have placement tie-up with over 550+ companies  Java Course in Chennai at FITA follows a well-designed syllabus to develop skills in Java programming and using tools needed for applications development in J2EE, J2SE, and J2ME. Further, the extensive course kit includes practical training to equip you to handle real-world problems. Student Testimonials FITA academy is definitely one of the best institutes to learn IT studies I have learnt as many things related to JAVA which will help me in interview as well in practical work. Being in FITA I have also gained confidence in JAVA. My trainers are very much skilled starting from basics to crack an interview, He taught me everything. It’s really great for being a part of FITA Academy. Java Training in Chennai -Review by Amirta Rath Hi, I am Gowthm. It’s my pleasure to state that I had been the part of FITA educational training institute for Java Course in Chennai. Here the training was extremely good. My trainer offered me the complete training on Java with practical sessions and real-time projects. FITA stand out from the crowd of IT training institutes as they offer quality training. I would recommend FITA for anyone looking for Java Course in Chennai. I got placed in a company called “SRINSOFT” through FITA guidelines. Java Course in Chennai -Review by Gowtham Hi, I am Priscilla, It’s been a great experience to study in FITA through which we gain knowledge about JAVA. Here the service is too good and I am so glad to complete this JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA. After joining here I got placed in CTS and FITA helped me to achieve in my career too. I take this moment to thank FITA for supporting every individual to develop their career. Best Java Training in Chennai – Reviewed by Priscilla My name is Pradeep, I did Java J2EE Course in Chennai at FITA. My trainer was very good at Java & J2EE concepts. When I entered into FITA I know only the fundamental stuffs in Java programming, after joining here I got more exposure in Java. Now I have great confident on my knowledge and I am ready to write code for any applications using Java, so If you are interested to learn Java, I suggest you to take Java Training in Chennai at FITA Academy. Java J2EE Training in Chennai – Reviewed by Pradeep FITA was very helpful in developing core knowledge in JAVA . Now i am able to write any program based scenarios given. Trainers were very helpful and I was having a good rappo with them in terms of technical communication. Java Training in Chennai – Reviewed by P.Vinoth FITA Academy, very good place to learn JAVA , J2EE. My trainer helps me to understand what is Java and he clearly explained the coding part. If anybody wants to join Java I hope this is the correct place to learn IT courses. JAVA Training Institutes in Chennai – Reviewed by Thillairajan K The Core Java classes at FITA were very flexible and moreover were practical combined classes. So it was easier to cope up with the classes. All the topics were explained with maximum clarity.Had a great experience to be a student of FITA.Thanks FITA Academy Core Java Training in Chennai – Reviewed by Ahilan Ravikumar It was a wonderful experience pursuing the java+testing courses here. Got to learn new things. Everyone was so supportive, the coordinator, the trainer, they supported a lot. Whenever extra class was needed to be arranged, the coordinator and the trainer were always ready for it. Trainer was very helpful, he helped me a lot to understand the concepts. Even in between the trainer used to conduct mock tests to ensure we are really understanding the concepts. Not only theoretical part they mostly focused in the practical, live projects. Happy to do the course from this academy. FITA rocks Java Training in Chennai – Reviewed by Dipshi Kumari Locations FITA Academy offers the best Java Training in Chennai with the help of MNC professionals. Spend your valuable time to visit our branches in Chennai. FITA Academy is located at key areas of Chennai, Velachery, T Nagar, Tambaram, Anna Nagar and OMR. People also search for Java Training in Velachery Java Training in Tambaram Java Training in OMR Java Training in Porur Java Training in Anna Nagar Java Training in T Nagar Java Training in Adyar Java Interview Questions Java Interview Questions and Answers Before attending any Java interview it is important to know about the expectations of the company. Basic knowledge in Java programming along with the latest advancements in the core java with java SE8 like the lambda expressions, streams, Java data, and time API are key points to be remembered before attending the interview. Start answering the questions with the challenges and industry techniques of Java that are related to your previous profile. New features in Java 10, like the local-variable type interface, implementation of additional Unicode extensions of BCP 47 language tags, enable the hotspot VM and allocate the Java object heap on another device, the root certification authority certificates in the JDK. JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA helps the learners to acquire holistic skills in Java and excel in their careers. OOPS is an important topic that can be learned by joining Java Training in Chennai. JDBC skills and framework knowledge are the important skills required to evaluate the skills of the candidate. Let me discuss some of the tips to crack the Java Interview. The tips can be broadly divided into two categories such as knowledge preparation and mental preparation. Let us deep dive into the topic. The subconscious preparation is nothing but the practical knowledge which is realized by constant practice into the concepts of Java provided by Java Training in Chennai at FITA. Java Course in Chennai at FITA trains the students with mock interviews which gives an idea to handle the interviews with proper planning for the time taken for each question. When was Java Launched? Java was launched in the year 1995 and it has undergone various changes in the past 23 years. It is a high-level programming language that runs on Windows, Mac, and other variations of UNIX. List out the platforms supported by the Java? Windows, Mac, and UNIX/Linux are some of the platforms that support Java. The UNIX or Linux supports Ubuntu, red hat and sun Solaris. Which function in java makes it executable on other processors? The compiler in the JAVA saves the file as an architectural-natural object file format. The architectural format aids the compiled code to be executable on various processors. Java Training in Chennai at FITA provides opportunities in multiple industries and makes the students know about the scope of Java from the best Java Training institute in Chennai. What is a class? What is the difference between the class and interface in Java? A class is a template that is used to create the objects, define the data types, and methods. The class properties are mentioned in the class objects. An abstract class is used for the instance methods and it is used to implement a default behavior. An interface can declare different constants and implement a default behavior. An abstract class has only one member like private and protected whereas interface has all public members. Java Training in Anna nagar at FITA is shaping the lives of thousands of students to make a successful career. Where static variables, static methods, and static classes are used in Java? Static things are used in Java with a block of code in any class indicate the virtual machine starts and the instances are created before itself. How to handle the immutable object in Java? The immutable objects are non-final but private. The immutable objects are changed using the constructor. The mutable object should be prevented from leaking any reference from that member.FITA is widely recognized as the best JAVA Training Institute in Chennai providing in-depth knowledge about java and oops concepts which are the base for multiple other technologies. What is the use of a singleton class? The singleton class is used to create an object, restrict the number to one and provides flexibility to create objects if the scenario changes. Write the value of the float and double in Java? The value of the float is 0.0f and the value of double is 0.0d. What is Erasure? If the runtime has no idea about types of generic objects like list<integer> then it is called as Erasure. This is the JVM phenomenon for the generic objects. JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA trains the students with a clear knowledge about the development environment, run time environment and coding for the virtual machine. How Dot operator is used in Java? The dot operator is used to access the variables, methods of the class objects and sub-packages from a package. How objects are transformed into bytes in java? Serialization is the process in the java where the objects are transformed into bytes in Java. Best JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA trains the students to write generic and reusable codes to gain in-depth knowledge in coding. How to share objects securely in multi-threaded programming like java? String class is used to share the objects as it is immutable. Explain the terms Map, hash map, hashtable, and treemap in Java? The map is an interface, Hashmap implements a map, hashmap is unsynchronized and supports null values and keys, a hash table is the same as the hash map but it is the synchronization version, treemap is similar to hash map but uses the tree to implement the map in the Java programming. Java Training with well-organized classes and good learning strategies will sharpen the programming skills of the learners. What is the result of the hash code function? A weak hash code function will result in frequent collision in Hashmap and this leads to increase the time to add an object. Explain the importance of the getters and setters in Java? The setters and getters use the interfaces and it will hide the implementation details. This process of hiding is helpful to make the member variables public in java. Java Course in Chennai at FITA offers training in right-sized batches and project-oriented classes which aids for the continuous learning and in-depth knowledge of the learners. Is it possible to run the JVM with the same class and many packages? Explain. Yes, it is possible because it loads the class with one time only and the same package can be imported with the same class in the Java Training in Chennai. What is the function of throw and throws in JAVA? Throws are used for the declaration of the exception and throw is used to trigger the exception. Best JAVA Training in Chennai offers java courses with expert trainers because they know that JAVA is a programming language with the highest demand globally. Describe the significance of the order in the statements for FileNotFoundException and IOException? FileNotFoundException is inherited from IOException and the exception's subclasses are caught first. What is the difference between ready state and wait state in Java language? The yield() method is used for the ready state and the Sleep() method is used for the wait state. JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA offers customized Java course in Chennai for beginners and experienced professionals. Which class is used if the exact size of the array is not known? Vector class is used to implement an array of objects which grows and it is used to know the exact size of the array. Mention the bits used to represent Unicode, ASCII, UTF-16 and UTF-8 characters? Unicode uses 16 bits, ASCII uses 7 bits, ASCII uses 8 bits, UTF-8 uses the 8 or 16 or 18-bit pattern, UTF-16 uses 16-bit and larger bit patterns to represent in JAVA programming. JAVA Training in Porur at FITA trains young minds to acquire the full focus into the programming and help to get placed within a short time. What is the use of the Applets? The applet viewer or web browser is used to transform the small program from one computer to another computer. How to write applications in different languages to serve different countries? A locale is an object which is full of geographical, cultural and political information. This object helps with custom codes and conventions to write applications in different languages. Describe the benefits of java package? Java package is used for organizing projects which consist of multiple modules and they protect them from unauthorized access. Core JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA is the best course for the beginner as core java is used in programming, automation and also to use the DevOps. Is it necessary to import java.lang package in the JVM? No, it is loaded in the JVM by default. Explain the terms public, static, void and main in the JAVA? The public explains the access modifier and it specifies that it can be accessible by any class. Static is accessed without creating an instance, the void will not return any value, main is the method where the main execution occurs and it is the starting point for any application with a particular signature only, and the string is the parameter to be passed to the main method. Join the Java Training Course in Chennai and join the Java community which is the biggest community in the world. Justify the statement that Java is not 100 percent object-oriented programming language? Encapsulation, data hiding, inheritance, polymorphism, abstraction, predefined types, defined types, and all the operations are through the methods exposed at the objects shows that Java is an object-oriented programming language. The primitive data types such as boolean, byte, char, int, float, double, long, and short shows that java is not an object-oriented programming language. What is the purpose of the wrapper classes? The wrapper classes convert the primitives in to reference types and every primitive data type is wrapped with a class. What are the two types of constructors in JAVA? Default constructor and parameterized constructor are the two types of constructor in Java. List some of the differences between the array list and the vector? Array List is not synchronized and vector is synchronized, Array list is fast and vector is slow, Array list increases the array size by 50 percent, vector is double the size of its array, array list does not define the increment size and vector defines the increment size, and array list can only use iterator and vector uses both enumeration and iterator except hash table. J2EE Training in Chennai is conducted with a focus to help the learners to gain in-depth knowledge in java. Bring out the differences between equals() and ==? Equals() is used for the object class in java and it is used for equality between two objects. == is a binary operator that compares the primitives and objects. List out the differences between heap and stack memory? The stack memory use the one thread of execution, heap memory uses all parts of the application, stack memory cant access the other threads, objects stored in the heap are accessed globally, the system in stack is called as LIFO, the system in the heap is based on generation, stack exists until the end of the execution, heap is from the start to end, stack memory contains the primitive and reference variables, heap memory contains all the objects. JAVA J2EE Training in Chennai is the best training to enter into the software world and get on-site jobs. Mention some of the features in JAVA9? Java 9 REPL (Jshell), java 9 module system, factory methods for immutable list set Map and map entry, private methods in interfaces, reactive streams, and GC improvements are some of the features in the java9 which makes it a popular language. Mention some of the features in Java 8? The important features in Java 8 are interface changes with the default and static methods, functional interfaces and Lambda expressions, java stream API, and java date-time API. These features made the JAVA as a popular and high programming language. JAVA Training in Tambaram at FITA provides high-class training with real-time projects to hone the technical skills of the learners. Is it possible to write the java program in windows and run it in Mac OS? Yes, it is possible to write a java program in windows and run it in Mac os as it is an independent platform which is open to any operating system. Differentiate JDK and JVM? JDK is for the development and JVM is to execute the java programs. JDK provides tools executable and helps for the debugging. JVM is used to execute and it is machine-independent. Differentiate JVM and JRE? JVM is for implementation and JRE is for the execution. JRE does not have the tools and it is for the installation. JAVA Course is the widely learned course and it has many online materials also to help the beginners. Java, Javascript, C#, Python, C++, C, PHP, Ruby, Go, Perl, PL/SQL, Scala, Objective C, Apex, R, Swift, SAS, MATLAB, Crystal and scratch are the demand sequence of the programming languages around the world as per the Stackify Research. Thus the most in-demand language across the world is JAVA. So, learning JAVA is the best option to enter into the software industry. Describe the term static block? Java static block is used to create static resources when the class is used and the memory in the java class Loader execute the group of statements in the Java static block. Describe the term interface? Interfaces are the hierarchy of code and it is a core part of the programming language. It is used in the JDK which consists of the tools required for the development. It is used in JDK, design patterns, frameworks, and tools. It provides a contract for the subclasses to implement and also it is used to achieve abstraction in java. Java class is used to implement multiple interfaces and mostly interface is used to implement the superclass. Explain the abstract class in JAVA? Classes and methods for the subclasses are created using the abstract class. The methods with implementation and the methods without body are created using the abstract class. An abstract class is created with the abstract keyword. To override the methods in the abstract class, to implement the abstract methods in the abstract class and it is the base for the subclasses in Java. JAVA Course in Chennai at FITA explains the advantages of java like the huge number of libraries, graphics, sockets, and multi-thread in Java. Differentiate the abstract class and interface in JAVA? The abstract class wants an abstract keyword to create a class and interface is used as a keyword for the interfaces. There is method implementation in the abstract class, whereas there is no method implementation in the abstract class. During implementation, only one abstract class is used and many interfaces can be used. An abstract class is run with the main() method and it is not possible to run interface with main() interfaces. Searching for the best Java Training Institute in Chennai will land you at FITA where best-in-class training is provided along with 100% placement assistance. Is it possible to extend an interface? Yes, it is possible to extend an interface and that is the reason why we have multiple interfaces. JAVA Training Institute in Chennai operates with a motive to help the young engineers and experienced professionals to gain in-depth knowledge in Java. What is the new feature in java 8 for the interfaces? After Java 8, the interfaces are implemented with the default method and it is easy to handle the diamond problem with multiple interfaces. Java course in Chennai at FITA provide the flexible timings and peer approach to make the learning place an interactive experience. Describe the term marker interface? Some functionality in Java implement classes by Java and these functionalities need a market interface to force the implementation. The market interface is empty and it is used for the functions like serialization and cloneable. Join the Best JAVA Training Institute in Chennai at FITA and know about the pros and cons of the java language to use it effectively. Which feature in the java makes the conversion between primitive types and wrapper classes easy? Java 5 autoboxing and unboxing make the primitive types and the wrapper classes' conversion easy. Java Course is the best course among all other courses as there is a huge demand for java programmers in the software industry. Describe the term Ennum in Java? Ennum has fields with a fixed set of constants and it is introduced in Java 1.5. Ennum is used to create a direction such as EAST, WEST, NORTH, and SOUTH. Enum constants are static and final and used to create an enum type. Ennum type is similar to the class in Java. Java Training in OMR at FITA provides the best training to gain all the skills required to enter into the development environment and work towards the perfection of the product. FITA trains the candidates with the Java SE which clearly explains the Java Enterprise Software application development and the other environments of java are web application development, mobile application development, java application migration, java application maintenance, java application testing, java custom application development, java desktop application development, java cloud application development, java CMS development, Java application development, java application integration and java application support. Describe the term Java Annotation? Java annotations are the Metadata about the program and it is embedded in the program itself. Java annotations provide information about the code and it can be parsed by the annotation parsing tool or by the computer. Some of the annotations in Java are @Override, @Depreciated and @Supresswarnings. Best JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA operates with a motto to provide the best education and increase the global presence of the Indian students in the employment Industry. Describe the term Java reflection API in Java? The run time behavior of a java application is inspected and modified with the Java Reflection API. The reflection API violates the rules of access modifier and breaks the design patterns such as singleton pattern by invoking the private constructor. Reflection help for the processing of the frameworks like spring hibernate or tomcat. Java course in Chennai at FITA is the best course to enter into the software industry and many web applications, desktop applications, and mobile applications that use Java. What is composition in Java Training in Chennai? The composition is used to reuse the code and it is a design technique to implement has a relationship in classes. Java composition uses the instance variables and other objects. The visibility of other objects is controlled by using the java composition. The objects needed are reused and controlled by using composition in Java. There are so many online materials available for Java that give practical knowledge to the students which are highly needed to clear the interview in the top companies. Compare the benefits of composition and inheritance? In the composition method change in the superclass might affect the subclass. If the method in the subclass and the method in the superclass are different then there are chances for the compilation error but in the composition, this will not happen. Inheritance is designed with a model that exposes all the superclass methods and variables to the client. There is no control and it is not possible to design the superclass. The inheritance binds the classes of compile-time in the run time binding under composition. When invocating the methods the composition provides flexibility. Best Java Training in Chennai at FITA with 100% Placement support, helps the students for the placement with regular updates and the students' review is the impact which shows that students are placed immediately in the top companies. Mention the sorting methodology in Java? In a collection, a comparable interface is used to sort the custom objects. The compareTo is the method used for the sorting method in the Comparable interface. If there is a specification in the sorting methodology then comparator instances are used. JAVA Course in Chennai knows about the struggle in understanding any programming language and by joining the course, the students get the confidence to take up the interview as they get the desired output from the input. Explain the inner class in Java? Inner class accesses the variables and methods from the outer class and they are called as the nested classes. Inner classes are non-static nested classes. Static variables are not there in the inner classes as it is associated with the instances. Java Coaching Centers in Chennai is helpful to understand the simple, clean and well-designed language and makes the programming language as the interesting one to learn intensively. Explain the term anonymous inner class in Java? Anonymous inner class is a local inner class without a name. It is defined with a single statement and it always extends a class and implements an interface. Java Training Institute in Chennai is widespread all over Chennai to make the learning as a comfortable task to the students and learn the course within the given period to accomplish the other task to pursue the career. Describe the term class loader in Java? The byte code program in the memory is loaded into the Java class loader to access any class. To access any class the class loader is created and it is extended to the ClassLoader class. The method used in the class loader is the loaded Class (String name) method. Java Training in Velachery at FITA covers the java course in two models and they are the basics for the fresher and advanced for the experienced. Mention the three types of built-in class loaders in Java? Bootstrap class loader, extensions class loader, and system class loader are the three types of the class loader in Java. Java Training in Tambaram at FITA serves the learners in and around Tambaram with expert trainers and impart quality education. Explain the term bootstrap class loader? The bootstrap class loader is used to load the rt.jar and other core classes. Bootstrap class is used to load the internal classes. Java Courses in Chennai at FITA makes the real problems easy and it provides practical knowledge to handle the problems in the development environment. Explain the extension class loader in Java? Extensions class loader is used to load the classes from the JDK extensions directory. Join the Java Training in Adyar and get placed in the top companies. Describe the System class loader in Java? If -cp or -classpath command-line options are used to load the classes from the current classpath to invoke a program. Join the Core Java Training in Chennai at FITA to gain the basic knowledge which is the base to learn other technologies evolving now. Describe the term ternary operator in Java? The three operands are the conditional operator used in the Java ternary operator. This is the replacement for the if-then-else statement and the ternary operator is the if-else condition. Java Course in Chennai at FITA is the best course to make a career with handsome salary package in the software industry. What is the function of the super keyword? The superclass method needs a super keyword to access the class. In the constructor method, the first statement is the super keyword. It is used to invoke the SuperClass in the constructor. J2EE Training in Chennai is suitable to know about the operations in the big companies and handle the big projects. When the break or continue statement is used in Java? Break statement is used in the switch case and continue statement is used to skip the current iteration of for, while or do while in the loop and this is used with a label to the current iteration. Describe the term this keyword? The reference to the current object is mentioned with the keyword. This is mostly done when the object variables are used. Java Training in Velachery at FITA provides quality education and clear the doubts of the students to turn them into industry-ready developers. Which file supports more than one java class in Java? .java files support more than one java class. Explain error handling in stored procedures? The error codes are returned by the stored procedure and if it fails to return the error code then the catching SQL exception will resort to the error code. Which element is used to perform the indexed search in a list of objects? An array list is used to perform the indexed search in a list of objects. The JVM makes java as a secure language What is the function of the file class? The file class is used to access the files and directories from a local system. What is the process or the life cycle of applets? Initialization, starting, stopping, destroying and painting are the process or life cycle of applets. Joining the JAVA Course in Chennai at FITA is the best option to enter into the software industry and Java is the gateway to the other technologies. Which method is used in the Applet class to load an image? The get Image is used to load an image in the Applet class. What is the OOPS concept in Java which made it a robust language? Abstraction, encapsulation, polymorphism, inheritance, association, aggregation, and composition are the OOPs concepts in java which says about the objects and the operations. The OOPS concept makes the code as reusable code with minor changes. What is the difference between Java and JVM in java? Java is the independent platform and it works with the OOPS concept. Java code is used anywhere with minor changes which makes Java platform-independent. JVM is not platform-independent and JVM differs as per the usage of the operating system. Differentiate JDK and JVM in java? JDK is the tool used for development and execution. JVM is used only for the execution. Join the JAVA Course in Chennai to explore the big companies where there is a huge opportunity to explore different usage of Java. Differentiate JVM and JRE? JRE is the tool used for the execution. JRE uses JVM, other java classes and other java binaries to execute the java program. To execute the java programs it is mandatory to install the JRE tool. Development and execution are taken care of by different types of tools in the JAVA. Which element in java supports the multiple inheritance? Interfaces in java support multiple inheritance. The interface takes care of the methods and the implementation class takes care of the implementation. So, it is possible to use multiple inheritance in java. By knows about the demand in the global market and train candidates to match the job market. Differentiate path and classpath variables? The path is used to add the directory location to locate the executables in Java. The classpath is used to locate the class and the classpath location is added to the classpath variable. The classpath location can be a directory, ZIP files, and JAR files. The path is used to locate the executables and classpath is used to locate the class files. Java is the renowned technology to learn which has a good number of followers all over the world and JAVA Course in Chennai will bring out excellent talents to the job industry through training. Explain the main method in Java? Java's main method is accessible during runtime without initializing the class. Java's main method is public and static to pass the runtime arguments to java. The input parameter is used to pass the runtime arguments to java. Differentiate the term overload and override in Java? The name is the same but the arguments are different for more than one method then it is called as overloading in Java. If two methods have the same signature then it is called as overriding in Java. The override annotation is used in the child class to make sure whether the parent class is changed. The parent class and the child class has the same signature. Java Training Institute in Chennai offers the course with customization and updates as per the industry standards. Is it possible to have multiple public classes in java source file? No, it is not possible to have multiple source files in the java source file. One public class is allowed to Java and the other multiple classes are not public. Explain the term Java package in java and by default which package is imported? The java classes are grouped as per the functionality of modules and this mechanism is named as java package. No need to import any class from the package and the java.lang package is imported by default. Java Training Institute in Chennai holds the responsibility to produce good java programmers and hence the training institutes provide good counseling as per the qualification of the individuals. Mention the different types of access modifiers in Java? The different types of access modifiers are public, private, protected and default access modifiers in Java. When final key work is used in Java? To make sure that the class has ended and can't extend the class the final keyword is used. The child class can't override the final keyword. Java Training in Chennai at FITA provided by expert trainers makes the programming language easy to learn. When a static keyword is used in Java? The static keyword is used in Java to make it global. A static keyword can be used with class-level variables and methods. A static method invokes the static methods and accepts the static variables. Differentiate finally and finalize in Java? Finally block is used to execute the code and it is used along with the try-catch block. To release the resources in the try block the final block is used. Finalize () is used to override in the class and it is the special method in Java. When the garbage is collected then this method is called and the resources are released. Java Training in T Nagar at FITA opens the door of opportunities to be placed in your dream career in the highly competitive software industry. Is it possible to declare a class as static? Yes, it is possible to declare an inner class as static but it is not possible to declare a high-level class as static. The declared inner class is called a static nested class. The classic inner class is nested for packaging convenience and it is the same as any other class. Explain the term static import? If the method or class from another class is used then it is imported to the class with the class name. This is known as a static import. If the static import is overused in the program then it will make the program as unreadable or unmaintainable. Java Classes in Chennai provides practical oriented training and clear the doubts of the students with immense patience. Explain the resource management in Java 7? The try with resources statement in java 7 is the automatic resource management system. Earlier the resources are closed with finally block and try-catch statement. There was a memory leak in this system and hence the try with resources statement is used to close if it gets finished. Explain multi-catch block in JAVA? The multi-catch block is used to catch multiple blocks and it is the new improvement in java 7. Ever catch block has a similar code in the multi-catch block and it makes the code shorter and cleaner. Pipe (|) is used to separate the exception and (ex) is used to final exception. Java Classes in Chennai to create the best experience and bring a change in the life of the students through knowledge. What is new in Java 8 regarding the interface? Interfaces are generally extended and it is not possible to implement the interface. The new features in Java 8 are that it has a default method and it is present in multiple interfaces. The implementation method is provided in the implementation class in Java. Core Java Training in Chennai teaches the Java language from the basics for the students from the IT background and also to the students from the non-IT background. Explain the Java reflection API? The reflection API inspects the java application during the run time. The java class, interface, enum, and their methods are inspected. Reflection API is highly used in the java frameworks. What is the use of using composition in Java? Java composition helps to reuse the code. The visibility of the other objects is controlled and it is easy to reuse only the object which we need by using the composition in Java. Best JAVA Training in Chennai imposes the best possible ways to overcome the challenges in the field of software development. How to sort objects in Java? To sort custom objects in Java are sorted using the comparable interface and this leads to the default way to custom objects collection. If there are criteria in sorting the information then comparator instances are created to sort the data. Explain about the default constructor? If there is no constructor for the class and no-argument constructor for the class then it is known as default constructor. This constructor is created by default by the java class. If the programmer defines other constructors then this is not created by default by Java class. Explain the term deserialization in Java? The stream data created through serialization is converted in to object and this process is called deserialization. Explain the process to run the JAR file in Java? Main class entry is required to run a jar file in the jar manifest file. The java command executes the class and the entry point is the main class. What is the purpose of an instance of a keyword? An instance of a keyword is used to check the objects. To know about which class the object belongs to the instance of keyword is used. Join the Java Course to become an expert in java programming. Which method is used to test whether a language is passing by reference or pass by value? The swap method is used to check whether a language is passed by reference or pass by value. Where java compiler is stored in JAVA? Java compiler is not stored in JRE or JVM but it is stored in JDK. Join the Advanced Java Training in Chennai at FITA to complete the software projects within the given time and increase the productivity of the business. What are the benefits of the collections frameworks? The effort towards the development is reduced, code quality is enhanced as the collections framework classes are already tested, the maintenance cost is reduced, and reusability are some of the benefits of the collections framework. Collections are used in every programming language with the usage of generics and concurrent collection classes.  For more Java Interview Questions and Answers Java Job Openings Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Take care of developing high performance, enterprise level and highly scalable applications, write good efficient code with designs which match the requirement. Job Description: Need graduates with BS or MS qualification in computer science, He or she should have 4 to 8 years of experience, experience in Java EE platforms, knowledge of databases, knowledge of framework, certification in Java from sun. Company Name: BSRI Solutions Private Limited Location: Chennai Contact details: admin@bsrisulutions.com Date of interview: After sending the bio-data the company contact person will send the interview call letter to the concern selected students. Job title: Junior java developer Responsibility: Understand the core java concepts like collections, algorithm, data structure, experience in handling the multi-threading, understand the oops concept, Experience in frameworks and RDBMS. Job Description: Graduate or post graduate with one month notice period, preferable experience is 1 to 6 years. Company Name: Xoriant Solutions PVT ltd Location: Chennai Contact details: 8830735904 Date of interview: Send the resume to hemalata.joshi@Xoriant.com and get the interview call. Job Title: Java Programmer Responsibility: He or she should have experience in web services, handle JIRA tool and take care of the maven deployment. 1 to 6 years of experience is desirable. Job Description: Experience in web-apps, knowledge in Jsp, servlets, Data base knowledge in Oracle, JavaScript, bootstrap, and frameworks knowledge like spring and hibernate. Company Name: Intel Serve IT Solutions Location: Chennai Contact Details: Send your bio-data to intelservejobs@gmail.com Date of Interview: Send the bio-data with the information about the notice period to the aforesaid email id. The contact person will intimate the interview schedule. Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Immediate joiners with 30 days’ notice period, 3 to 5 years of experience with programming, maintenance, and design and software development. Job Description: Knowledge in Java, Spring-boot, hibernate, Rest APi, Bootstrap, angular, and node js. Company Name: Cintana Technologies Private limited. Location: Chennai Contact Details: revathy.selvam@cintanatech.com Date of Interview: send the biodata to selvam@Cintanatech.com or 9600007530 to schedule the interview. Job Title: ExcelaCom Technologies Pvt Ltd Responsibility: This role is for the R and D team and it requires 1 to 3 years of experience in the field. Job Description: Experience with java and J2EE, advance java knowledge like struts, spring and hibernate, good programming and communication skills to handle the client requirements. Company Name: Excelacom Technologies PVT Ltd Location: Chennai {Navalur} Contact Details:  5/D-5, SIPCOT IT Park, Navalur Post, Siruseri, Chennai- 603103 KANCHIPURAM, Tamil Nadu, India 603103 Date of Interview: Call 91-44-30683000 to know about the interview details. Job Title: Full stack Java Developer Responsibility: RR Donnelley is a leading provider in the market and located in multiple locations like North America, Europe, India, Srilanka and Philippines. The desired candidate should handle the client requirement and the front end development. Job Description: This is full time and permanent job for the job seekers. The desired candidate should have knowledge in Core java, JavaScript, Angular JS, HTML, and CSS. Experience in handling Jira, An gular 2, typescript, Mango DB, Oracle, Agile methodology, spring boot and RESTful design is required. 3 to 8 years of experience is needed. Company Name: RR Donnelley India Outsource Private Limited Location: Chennai Contact Details: Jones Vasanth-7200017462 Date of Interview: Call the contact number and schedule the interview after a telephonic discussion. Job Title: Java Developers Responsibility: This job opening is for candidate with 3 to 6 years of experience, He or she should have the java knowledge, designing skills and communication skills to develop the application and maintain the application. Job Description: Knowledge in Core java, hibernate, webservices, JSP servlets, and collections. Company Name: Virtusa Consulting Services Pvt Ltd Location: 34, IT Highway, Navallur, Chennai – 600103 Contact Details: Call the number 91-44-000000000 to speak to Aravind and schedule the interview. Job Title: Java Programmer Responsibility: Develop coding for the application and take care of maintenance. Job Description: Any graduate, 2017 and 2018 passed out, the joining process is direct for the freshers, the desired experience is 0 to 1 year. Company Name: Tarv Technologies Location: Chennai Contact Details: No.1, 1st floor, Balaji Nagar, 1st Street, Ekkattuthangal, Ch-32 Land Mark: Near Saravana Bhavan Hotel Date of Interview: Direct walk in from 21 January to 23rd January. Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Communicate with the clients and develop the coding for the different needs of the business. Job Description:  The candidate should possess basic knowledge in java, JSP, Servlets and SQL, this is fresher requirement and only for the male candidates, and 3 years of service agreement is essential. Company Name: Inspiri Solutions Limited Location: Chennai Contact Details: No:54, Murugesa Naicker complex, Greams road, Chennai-600006 Date of Interview: 21st January 10 AM to 3 PM Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Program and design the coding to match the different requirements from the clients. Job Description: 4 to 9 years of experience is required, immediate joiners with 15 days of the notice period are essential. Company Name: ILABZ TECHNOLOGY LLP Location: Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru Contact Details: Share the resumes to shaik@ilabztechnology.com Date of Interview: After screening the interview the contact person will send the details about the date of the interview. Join the Best Java Training Institute in Chennai, FITA to become successful in the career path with the genuine tips from the group of experts. We have good rapport with the community of experts and learners in the respective technology as we train the students for different requirements. Job Title: Developer or Team Leader Responsibility: Check the code reviews, prepare the HLD, LLD and other technical documents, analyze the performance, give solution to the problems, maintain the quality process, check the deliverables, 3 years’ experience in Angular JS and React JS, 6 years of experience in Java, spring, hibernate, java script, and MySQL. And knowledge to use JIRA tool for bug tracking. Job Description: Proven record in managing the teams, Leadership qualities to manage the team, excellent communication skills, strong interpersonal skills, Experience working in Agile, Experience in Architecting the Solution (Java) and using Java effectively, check Code Review, Prepare HLD, LLD and Technical Specification Documents as a team leader, analyze the performance of the team members, Adhere to Quality Process for the relevant deliverables, Should be able to get hands-on in the job, when required 6 years of experience in Java, experience in the frame works like Spring and Hibernate, JavaScript, MySQL, 3 years of minimum in Anglar.js and react JS, Knowledge of JIRA. 5 to 12 years of experience in Java. Company Name: Sensiple Software Solutions Private Ltd Location: Chennai (Navallur) Contact Details: E-mail the resume to aruban@sensiple.com or call the number 044-47419078 Date of Interview: After the screening the date will be intimated Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Take care of the application programming and maintenance of the application. Job Description: Knowledge in core Java, J2EE, JDBC, and knowledge in frameworks like spring and hibernate. 0 to 5 years of experience is required. Company Name: Auto Systems PVT Ltd. Location: Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata Contact Details: Call Sandhya 7378987634 and use the link to apply online to this job with http://autosystem.co.in/ Date of Interview: 20th December to 19th January, Walk in time is 11AM Job Title: Java Developer Responsibility: Take care of the programming and handle challenges with intense knowledge. Job Description: Notice period of 15 to 30 days is allowed. Candidate with one to five years of experience in Java is preferred. Knowledge of core java, knowledge in oops concepts, experience in frameworks like spring, hibernate, experience in JDBC, experience in JSP, servlets, Good exposure to HTML, CSS, Jquery, data structures and database knowledge of MySQL operating systems knowledge from Windows and Linux is required. Company Name: Quintessence Business Solutions and Services Location: Chennai Contact Details: Send your resume to the e-mail id yogender.sharma@qbssmail.com Date of Interview: 19th December to 29th December and the time is 11 AM. Java Tutorial Java is a well-known programming language in the field of Information Technology is Java Training in Chennai, which was designed for the constant flow of code on any machine. This was considered a treasure due to its wide usage on any platform or architecture. Java Training in Chennai at FITA provides a solid platform to launch your career in Java. Java is one of the popular programming languages that are class-based and object-oriented. Java is owned by Oracle company and its functioning in 3 billion devices around the world. Java will be safe for many years with high demand for Java developers in top MNC. Java is developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems and was launched in 1995. It is now acquired by Oracle Corporation. This language has similar syntax from C and C++. Here we discuss the features of Java programming in brief as listed below 1, Java is a platform-independent programming language 2, Java is an Object-oriented language 3, Java is very fast to use 4, Java provides features for security 5, Java is a huge standard library The latest edition of Java programming is Java SE 8. Many configurations built to suit different platforms. The new version J2 is called Java SE, Java EE and Java ME accordingly. Here we require a Pentium 200 MHz computer with RAM of 64 MB. The following software required for these is Windows XP or Win 7 or Win 8 or Linux 7.1, Java JDK 8, Microsoft Notepad or any text editor. The basic concepts followed in Java are Inheritance, Polymorphism, Abstraction, Classes, Objects, Instance, Method. James Gosling introduced Java in June 1991which was known as Oak named after an oak tree outside Gosling's office and got its name changed as of Java over a period. Thus, the journey of Oak becoming to be known as Java ends here. Java Training in velachery was not an open-source initially, it was under the influence of GNU General Public License, and Sun released the open-source version of Java in November 2006. Also, by May 2007 it was completely coded free language. The evolution of Java till date is listed below: JDK Beta (1995) JDK 1.0 (Jan 1996) JDK 1.1 (Feb 1997) J2SE 1.2 (Dec 1998) J2SE 1.3 ( May 2000) J2SE 1.4 (Feb 2002) J2SE 5.0(Sep 2004) Java SE 6 (Dec 2006) Java SE 7(July 2011) Java SE 8 (Mar 2014) Java SE 9(Sep 2017) Java SE 10(Mar 2018) Java SE 11(Sep 2018) Java SE 12 (Mar 2019) Tomcat is considered the desirable application server for the open-source programming language-Java. For the usage of Java in any web browser, it is necessary to have a Java plug-in. Java has unlocked its doors for interaction with other companies to extend the Java community. With the back-to-back, the release of versions in Java its expectation for lots of changes shortly. Thus, Java Training is very popular in the market to become successful as a programmer. FITA is ranked as the best Java Training Institute in Chennai. Java Training in Chennai- Outline There are various training for plenty of programming languages present in the market but Java remains at the top of the list. Sun Microsystems developed it in the year 1995. James Gosling is the one behind its innovation. The recent update released by them for Java is Java SE 11(18.9 LTS) launched in September 2018. Pattern with Predicate Utility Methods, Optional.isEmpty, Epsilon Garbage Collector are some of the noted features of Java SE 11. Soon after the launch of Java, its popularity made openings for multiple configurations for different platforms like J2EE, J2ME and the list continues. Its preference amidst developers keeps on increasing as program once written in Java Training in Chennai can be executed irrespective of the platform it is implemented. How is Java related to C and C++ The syntax of Java Course is derived from C and the object model is derived from C++. The programmers who are well versed with C/C++ language will be easily learning Java. Moreover, Java developers do not create a new thing but modify the already existing. As many similarities are prevailing between Java and C++, Java is known as the Internet version of C++. Java was not created for the replacement of C++ whereas its creation is to support for getting solution issues, which arise in C++. Hence, Java Course in Chennai is preferred over others. How is Java related to C# C# language was developed by Microsoft, which has similar features with Java. Both of them are using the general style syntax. FITA is considered as the best Java Training Institute in Chennai. Contribution of Java to the Internet Applet An Applet is one of the contributions of Java, which reframed the networked program across the world. It is designed for transmission over the Internet and executed by the web browser, which is compatible with Java. If the user clicks on anything, which consists of Applet, then it will download the applet automatically. Applet runs within a web browser, which works at the client-side. It is embedded in an HTML page with the use of OBJECT or APPLET tag. Points to remember: Every applet is a sub-classes of java.applet.Applet class. They have never been a stand-alone program as they run inside an applet viewer or a web browser. Moreover, JDK enables a standard viewing tool for an applet namely applet viewer. For an applet window, the output is not done using System.out.println() whereas done using AWT methodologies. The execution of the applet at the main() method is not used in the beginning. The various methods are: init(): This is the first method that is called for the initialization of variables. Moreover, it is called only once during run time. start(): It is the next step after init() and also called to restart an applet once it is stopped. paint(): The paint( ) is called every time AWT-based output of an applet needs to be redrawn, which can occur for many reasons. For instance, the window where the applet is running may be overwritten by another window. Or else even the applet window might be minimized and later on restored. In another instance, it is also called when the execution of the applet begins. stop(): This method is called when an HTML document having is left by the web browser. When stop( )is called, the applet is under execution. destroy(): This is called when the environment is the key factor in determining which applet is needed to be removed completely from memory. Features of Applets over HTML It displays dynamic web pages of any web application. It plays sound files. Plays animations Displays various documents It made numerous changes in the world of the Internet as the objects were able to progress freely. The 2 categories of information that are transmitted between the server and client namely passive and dynamic information. Let us get into the topic of what makes Java more prominent Complex-free: Java was designed for the developers to write programs with ease. It is considered easier than C++ as there is an automatic memory allocated. Multi-threaded: The capacity of a program to perform many tasks simultaneously within the program. Object-Oriented: Allows the user in the creation of modular programs along with reusable code. Distributed: Designed to make allocated computing simple along with the networking capability. Platform-Independent: Moving it from one system to another can be done with much ease. Secure: The Java language is highly secured when compared with other programming languages. Robust: It helps in eliminating error due to the presence of time error check along with runtime check. StackAllocation: This helps the user to store data with ease. High Performance: Java set up high performance due to the presence of just-in-time compilers. Thus, enroll yourself in Java Training at FITA for a blissful future. History of Java The project Java was initiated in the year 1991 by James Gosling, which was originally called “Oak” named after the Oaktree, which stood in the entrance of James's office. Then it was renamed as Green and after a long time, it got the name ‘Java'. Its public implementation happened in the year of 1995 by Sun Microsoft. After this, it was made open source in the year 2006under the terms of GPL. Finally, on May 8th of 2007, the process of making it code free was accomplished. Java Classes in Chennai is of great opportunity for IT professionals. Tools in need There are certain specifications to be fulfilled for running Java in your system. As Java Training is fetching more students it is indeed to have the specific hardware and software to work on Java. They are specified below: Pentium 200-MHzComputerwith64 MB of RAM Linux 7.1 or Windows xp/7/8 operating system Java JDK 8 Microsoft Notepad Java-Syntax A program in Java is a cluster of an object, which communicates by calling upon each other's method. Let us concentrate on the various components present in Java syntax: Class- It is the blueprint, which describes the state of the object supported by it. Object- They have various states along with different behaviors. Methods- It is always been a behavior. Instance variables- Every object has a unique set of it. Java Identifiers Every component present in Java requires names. It may be used for classes, methods, and variables that are known as identifiers. There are certain basic things to be remembered: The identifier should begin with the alphabet, underscore or currency character. They are case sensitive. The rest of the characters should be a combination of characters. The keyword should not be used as an identifier. Java Modifiers It is indeed necessary to modify methods, class and other components. The modifiers are classified into two: non-access modifier: abstract, final Access modifier: public, default Java Variables There are various Java variables: Local Variables Instance Variables (Non-static Variables) Class Variables (Static Variables) Java Enums Java 5.0 consists of Enums, which restricts variables to have a single predefined value form the given list. Enums are used for the reduction of bugs in the code. Java Keywords There are certain reserved words that cannot be used as variable or constant namely: abstract, assert, Boolean,break, byte, case, catch, char, class,continue,const, default, else, double, float, final, do, enum, extends, if, for, implements, goto, int, import, interface, instance, native, long, package, new, public, short, private, return,strictfp, synchronized, throw, switch, static, transient, volatile, void, try, throws. Comments in Java It supports both single and multi-line comments, which is similar to C and C++. Inheritance The specialty of Java classes can be derived from classes. Interfaces It is the arrangement between objects for the method to communicate. It plays a crucial role in inheritance. Java – objects & Classes Java is an object-oriented language which includes: Inheritance Polymorphism Abstraction Encapsulation Objects Instance Class Object Classes present in Java There are 3 classes present in Java: A class can contain any of the following variable types. Local variables: These variables are defined inside methods, constructors or blocks. Instance variables: variables are defined within a class and outside any method. Class variables: These are declared within a class, outside the method, with the static keyword. How to Use Singleton Class? Its work is to control object creation, which in turn limits the number of objects to one. As there is a singleton instance, its occurrence will be restricted to one per class. Join our Java Classes in Chennai and get more knowledge in it. How to Create an Object A class in Java administers the blueprints for any objects. The steps involved in the creation of an object are: Declaration: A variable is declared with a variable name and an object type. Instantiation: The ‘new' keyword is used for the creation of an object. Initialization: The ‘new' keyword is pursued by a call to a constructor. Operators The various operators available in Java are: Bitwise Operators– &(bitwise and), ~ (bitwise complement), | (bitwise or), >> (right shift), << (left shift), ^ (bitwise XOR), >>> (zero fill right shift). Arithmetic Operators– + (Addition), * (Multiplication), % (Modulus), – (Subtraction), / (Division), ++ (Increment) Assignment Operators – =, *=, +=, %=, |= Logical Operators – || (logical or), && (logical and),! (logical not) Relational Operators– == (equal to), < (less than), != (not equal to), <= (less than or equal to) Misc Operators-Conditional Operator Application There are over 3 billion devices, which run on Java script. Thus, joining Java Training in Chennai at FITA will be of great help for you to enter the IT sector. Few among them are listed below: Web based Applications such as amazon.in, etc. Mobile Enterprise based Applications like banking applications. Robotics Desktop-based applications like media player, acrobat reader, etc. Embedded System Smart Card Games Types Of Java Applications There are four types of applications, which can be generated with the use of Java programming: 1) Web Application An application that can be executed on the server-side along with the creation of the dynamic page is known as a web application. Servlet, Struts, JSF, Spring, etc. are some of the technologies which are used in the creation of web applications. 2) Standalone Application Standalone applications are also known as window-based or desktop applications are traditional software, which is indeed necessary to be installed on every machine. There are various examples for standalone applications such as antivirus, Media player, etc. AWT and Swing are deployed in the creation of Java. 3) Enterprise Application An application that is assigned in nature, such as banking applications, etc. is called enterprise application. It has many benefits of load balancing, high-level security, and clustering. Enterprise Java Beans is deployed for the creation of enterprise applications. 4) Mobile Application An application that is created for mobile devices is known as a mobile application. These days, Java ME and Android are used for the creation of various mobile applications. Java Platforms The students with a considerable amount of knowledge in Java Training have good openings in the market. Java platforms are classified into: 1) Java Standard Edition Java SE is a Java programming platform that consists of Java programming APIs like java.net java.lang, java.io, java.math, java.util, java.sql, etc. It has basic topics such as OOPs, Reflection, Regex, Exception, String, Inner classes, I/O Stream, Networking, AWT, Multithreading, Swing, Collection, etc. 2) Java Enterprise Edition J2EE is an enterprise platform that is primarily used for the development of enterprise and web applications. It is erected on top of the Java SE platform. It also has topics such as Servlet, Web Services, EJB, JSP, JPA, etc. 3) Java Micro Edition JME is a micro platform that is used to develop various mobile applications. 4) JavaFX It is used to develop an affluent internet application, which makes use of light-weight user interface API. Difference Between JDK, JRE, And JVM JVM Java Virtual Machine is an abstract machine and is called a virtual machine as its existence is not physical. Moreover, it is a blueprint, which provides a runtime environment for the execution of Java bytecode. Also, the execution of programs written in other languages is possible. All three JVM, JDK, and JRE are platform reliant due to the composition of all the unique operating systems. JVMs are availability us not constrained to any one hardware or software. For further information, join FITA, the best Java Training Institute in Chennai. The tasks performed by JVM are: Supply's runtime environment Loading of code Verifying the code Execution of code What Is JVM JVM is a specification in which the working of Java Virtual Machine is specified. Moreover, the implementation provider is not dependent on the choice of the algorithm whose implementation is provided by Oracle. FITA is among the top Java Coaching Centers in Chennai. JVM describes the following: Register set Fatal error reporting Memory area Class file format Garbage-collected heap Java Variables A variable is a container that possesses the value when the java program has been executed. A variable is accredited with a datatype. Variable is a name given for memory location, which is classified into three types: instance, local, and static. Join our Core Java Training in OMR and get the opportunity to enter the It sector. There are two types of data types in Java: primitive and non-primitive. Variable It is the fundamental unit of storage in any program. The value that is stored in a variable can be altered during the process of the program execution. A variable is just a name given to a memory location. In Java, every variable must be declared before bringing into use. Variable has always been a combination of vary + able. Data Types in Java Training in Chennai Data types define the different sizes, values as well, which can be stored in the variable. It is classified into two data types in Java: Primitive data types: Primitive data types consist of boolean, byte, double, short, int, char, long and float. Non-primitive data types: This include Classes, Interfaces, along with Arrays. Java Primitive Data Types In Java language, basic data types are the building blocks of data manipulation. The following are the fundamental data types that are available in the Java language. Become smart by joining our Java Training in Adyar. They are classified into 8 types of primitive data types: byte data type char data type short data type Boolean data type float data type int data type long data type double data type Boolean Data Type The Boolean data type is used for the storage of only two possible values either true or false. This data type is used for tracking of true/false conditions in simple flags. Byte Data Type The byte data type also belongs to primitive data type, which has an 8-bit signed two's complement integers. The value-range of byte datatype lies between -128 to 127 with the minimum value -128 and the maximum value 127 with a default value is 0. This is used to save memory in large arrays in which the memory savings is indeed necessary that saves space as a byte is 4 times smaller than an integer. This can be used for the replacement of the “int” data type. Short Data Type It is a 16-bit signed two's complement integer who's value-range lies amid -32,768 to 32,767 considering minimum value as -32,768 and the maximum value is 32,767. The default value in the short data type is also 0. It is similar to the byte data type to memory saving. Moreover, it is 2 times smaller when compared with an integer. Int Data Type This data type is a 32-bit signed two's complement integer with a value ranging between – 2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647. The minimum value is considered to be – 2,147,483,648 and maximum value as 2,147,483,647 with a default value as 0. This is broadly used as the default data type for the integral values except if there is no problem for the memory. Long Data Type This is a 64-bit two's complement integer and consist of value-ranging between -9,223,372,036,854,775,808 to 9,223,372,036,854,775,807. Long datatype has minimum value as – 9,223,372,036,854,775,808 and with the maximum value as 9,223,372,036,854,775,807. The default value is considered to be 0. This data type is deployed when there is a need for a range of values that are provided more than by int. Float Data Type This data type is a single-precision 32-bit floating point with a value range that is considered unlimited. It is favored to the usage of a float instead of using double if there is a need to save memory in large arrays of floating-point numbers. This data type should never be used for precise values such as currency with a default value as 0.0F. Double Data Type This is a double-precision 64-bit IEEE 754 floating-point with an unlimited range of value. This data type is normally used for decimal values similar to float. The double data type should never be used for precise values, like currency with a default value of 0.0d. Java If-else Statement Java if statement is deployed to test the condition and checks the boolean condition of true or false. The types of if statement in java are: if statement if-else-if ladder if-else statement nested if statement Java if Statement It runs the if block if the condition is true. Syntax: if(condition){ //code to be executed } Java If-Else Statement The Java if-else statement executes the if block, when the condition is true otherwise else block is executed. Syntax: if(condition){ //code if the condition is true }else{ //code if the condition is false } Java Nested If Statement The nested if statement serves the if block within another if block. In this, the inner if block condition runs only when the outer if block condition is true. Java Switch Statement The Java switch statement executes only one statement from multiple conditions. The switch statement works with long, byte, short, int, enum types, String. In other words, the switch statement is deployed for testing the equality of variables against multiple values. Loops Available In Java In the various programming languages available, loops are used to execute a set of instructions repeatedly when some of the conditions are true. They are classified into three types: while loop for loop do-while loop Java For Loop In Java, for loop is used for the iteration of a part of the program many times. If the number of iterations is steady, it is recommended for the usage of the loop. They are: Labeled For Loop Simple For Loop Enhanced For Loop Java Simple For Loop A simple loop is the same as C or C++. Initialization of variable, condition check, and increment or decrement value can be done. It has four parts: Initialization: It is the initial condition that is executed when the loop begins. Here, initialization of we can initialize the variable, or we can use an already initialized variable. It is an optional condition. Condition: It is the next condition that is executed every time to test the condition of any loop and continues the execution process until the condition is false. It must return a boolean value either true or false. Statement: The statement of the loop is executed each time until the second condition is false. Increment/Decrement: The variable value can be incremented or decremented, which is an optional condition. Java For-Each Loop The for-each loop is used to traverse collections in java. And is easier to implement than simple for a loop as there is no need to increment the value along with the use of subscript notation. It works on elements basis and not on the index. We get you trained in Java Course for a bright future. Syntax: for(Type var:array){ //code to be executed } Java Labeled For Loop We can bear the name of each Java Training in Tambaram for a loop. We can make use of labels before the for loop. It is indeed useful if we have nested for loop, with its help we can break/continue specifically for a loop. Syntax: labelname: for(initialization;condition;incr/decr){ //code to be executed } Java Infinitive For Loop If you use two semicolons ;; in the for loop, it will be infinite for loop. Syntax: for(;;){ //code to be executed } Java While Loop The Java while loop is used to iterate a part of the program several times. If the number of iterations is not fixed, it is recommended to use a while loop. Syntax: while(condition){ //code to be executed } Java Infinite While Loop If you pass true in the while loop, it will be infinite while loop. Syntax: while(true){ //code to be executed } Java Do-While Loop The Java do-while loop is used to iterate a part of the program several times. If the number of iterations is not fixed and you must have to execute the loop at least once, it is recommended to use the do-while loop. The Java do-while loop is run at least once because the condition is checked after the loop body. Syntax: do{ //code to be executed }while(condition); Java Infinitive Do-While Loop If you pass true in \ do-while loop, it will be an infinitive do-while loop. Syntax: do{ //code to be executed }while(true); Java Break Statement When a break statement is encountered within a loop, the loop is immediately terminated and program control resumes at the next statement following the loop. The Java break is used to break the loop or the switch statement. It breaks the current flow of the program at a specified condition. In the case of the inner loop, it breaks the inner loop alone. We can use Java break statement in all types of loops such as for loop, while loop and do-while loop. We will give training with the help of real-time examples in FITA, the best Java Training in Chennai. Syntax: jump-statement; break; Continue Statement The continue statement is used in a loop control structure when you need to jump to the next iteration of the loop immediately. It can be used with for loop or while loop. The Java continue statement is used to continue the loop. It continues the current flow of the program and skips the remaining code at a specified condition. In the case of the inner loop, it continues the inner loop. We can use Java continue statement in all the types of loops like for loop, while loop and do-while loop. For any further knowledge in Java enroll yourself in our J2EE Training in Chennai. Syntax: jump-statement; continue; Java Operators It is used to operate on variables and values. These two terms are included operand and operator. Call 98404-11333 to explore more about JAVA Training in Chennai at FITA. Example : int x=100 + 50 * Values are the operand *The operation performed between two operands is defined as an operator. FITA is the no.1 JAVA Course in Chennai Multidimensional Arrays If an array contains one or more arrays is called a multidimensional array. To create a two-dimensional array add each array to itself of curly braces. To explore more in java FITA Java classes in Chennai Example int[ ][ ] x={{1,2,3},{5,6,7}}; X is an array with two arrays with its elements To access the elements of the X array, set the two indexes: One for array and one for the elements inside that array. If you need to explore more in java FITA Java Training Example int [ ][ ] x={{1,2,3},{5,6,7}}; int y=x[1][2]; System.out.println(y); RESULT::7 We can also use for loop inside the for loop to access the elements of a two-dimensional.FITA core Java training in Chennai Example int[ ][ ] x={{1,2,3},{5,6,7}}; for(int i=0;i<x.length;++i) {for(int j=0;j<x[i].lemgth;++j) {system.out.println(x[i][j]); }} Modifier Type Modifiers are the keywords that can be added to those definitions, which are intended to be changed for their meanings. Java is a language that has a wide range of modifiers, inclusive of the following – Java Access modifiers Non Access Modifiers For making use of a modifier, keyword is included in the definition of a class, variable, or method. Java Training in Chennai will be of great scope for you. Access Control Modifiers Java has several access modifiers to set access levels for various classes, variables, methods, and constructors. There are four access levels- Those are visible to package, the default. No modifiers are required. Visible to the class alone (private). Visible to package and all the subclasses (protected). Visible to the entire world (public). Character Class We come across many situations where the need for objects is done instead of primitive data types. To achieve this, Java gives wrapper class Character for the primitive data type char. The Character class normally wraps the value of all the primitive type char into an object. Thus, an object of type Character can consist of a single field whose type is char. Java Course in Chennai is the best course for professionals who are looking for the domain change. All the fields, constructors, and methods of the class Character that are specified by the Unicode Data file and is a part of the Unicode Character Database, which is maintained by the Unicode Consortium. Java in generic makes use of the UTF-16 encoding method to represent the various char arrays in the String or String Buffer. Escape Sequences When any character is preceded by a backslash it is referred to as an escape sequence and has specific meaning to the compiler. FITA has been regarded as the best Java training institute in Chennai. String Class With the help of various methods, it is simple to perform various operations like trimming, replacing, converting, comparing, concatenating on the string. It is a powerful concept as everything is considered as a string, while the submission can be done in window, web-based or mobile-based applications. Creating Strings Whenever there is a presence of string literal in the code, the compiler enables in the creation of a String object with its value in this case for instance, “Hello world!'. It is possible to create String objects by deploying any new keyword along with a constructor. The String class consists of 11 constructors that enable the user to provide the initial value for the string with the use of different sources like an array of characters. String Length Methods used to obtain information regarding an object is referred to as the accessor method, which can be used with strings is the length() method that returns the number of characters present in the string object. Date and Time Java is a proficient language that provides the Date class accessible in java.util package and this encapsulates the current date and time. Getting Current Date and Time This is a simple method to get the current date and time. You can make use of simple Date object with the use of toString() method to print the current date and time Sleeping for a While The user can sleep for any duration of time from one millisecond to the lifetime of the computer, which is an added advantage. GregorianCalendar Class This is a definite implementation of a Calendar class, which implements a normal Gregorian calendar. The getInstance( ) method of this Calendar returns a GregorianCalendar boot up with the current date along with time in default local and time zone. It defines both AD and BC fields, which represent two eras defined by the Gregorian calendar. Regular Expression Regular Expression is also known as Java Regex is an API used to define a pattern for initiating the search or manipulation of strings. This is a special sequence of characters, which aids the user to match other strings or sets of strings with the usage of a specialized syntax held in any pattern. Its usage is widely done for defining the constraint on strings like password and email validation. After gaining knowledge in Java regex, it will be simple for you to test regular expressions by deploying Java Regex Tester Tool. A java.util.regex package is provided by Java to match the pattern with regular expressions, which is similar to Pearl programming language. This package consists of three classes: Pattern Class ? This provides no public constructors. To create a pattern, the user must invoke its public static compile() methods. It is a compiled version of a regular expression. Matcher Class ? It is the engine that interprets the pattern and also performs public constructors. The user can obtain a Matcher object by just invoking the matcher() method on a Pattern object. This implements the MatchResult interface. The different methods available in the Matcher Class are: Index methods Study methods Replacement methods PatternSyntaxException ? This is an unchecked exception, which indicates a syntax error in a regular expression pattern. Capturing Groups Capturing groups are a way to treat multiple characters as a single unit. They are created by placing the characters to be grouped inside a set of parentheses. For example, the regular expression (dog) creates a single group containing the letters “d”, “o”, and “g”. Java – Methods It is a collection of statements, which are grouped to operate. When the user calls the System.out.println()method, the system executes several statements for displaying a message on the console. A method is nothing but a block of code that only runs when it is called by the user. The user can pass data, called parameters, into a method. Methods are deployed to perform specific actions, called as functions. Creating Method A method is needed to be declared within a class. Moreover, it is defined with the name of the method, being followed by parentheses (). Method Calling For the deployment of a method, it is indeed necessary to be called. This can be done in two different ways: method returns a value or returning nothing. To call a method in Java, the user needs to write the method's name succeeded by two parentheses () and a semicolon; The process of method calls can be done with ease. When a program invokes any method, the control of the program gets transferred to the called method, which in turn returns control to the caller in two conditions, when ? it reaches the method ending closing brace. the return statement is executed. Method Parameters The information can be passed to functions as a parameter that is specified after the method name, within the parentheses. The user can also add as many parameters as per the necessity by just separating them with a comma. The Void keyword The void keyword enables the user to create methods that do not return a value. Method Overloading When a class consists of two or more methods with the same name but different parameters, it is referred to as method overloading, which is different from overriding. In the method of overriding, a method has the same method name, type, number of parameters. Passing Parameters by Value While working concealed by the calling process, an argument is to be passed. And this should be in the same order as their corresponding parameters present in the method specification. Parameters can be passed either by value or reference. Passing the parameters by Value stands for calling a method with a parameter. Using Command-Line Argument At times the user may determine to pass few information into a program when during the execution. This is done just by passing command-line arguments to main( ). A command-line argument is a piece of information that directly precedes the program's name on the command line when it is run. To access the command-line arguments within a Java program can be done with ease. The finalize () Method It is likely to define a method that is to be called before an object's final destruction by the garbage collector. And this method is referred to as finalize( ), which can be used to ensure that an object terminates perfectly. To add a finalizer to any class, the user simply defines the finalize( ) method. Within the finalize( ) method, the user will specify actions that are to be performed before the destruction of an object. Files and I/O The java.io package contains nearly every class you might ever need to perform input and output (I/O) in Java. All these streams represent an input source and an output destination. The stream in the java.io package supports many data such as primitives, objects, localized characters, etc. Java input and output process every input and generates the output based on the given input. Java makes use of streams to perform the input and output operation. Package java.io consists of the classes that are needed for the input and output operation. A stream is a series of data. Three streams are created automatically in Java which is as follows: in: This stands for the standard input stream and gives the data to the user's program. Generally, a keyboard is used as a standard input stream. out: It stands for the standard output stream to output the data generated by the user's program and the generic monitor is used for the standard output stream. err: It stands for the standard error stream and is used to get output the error data generated by the user's program. Stream A stream can be defined as a sequence of data. There are two kinds of Streams ? InPutStream ? The InputStream is used to read data from a source. OutPutStream ? The OutputStream is used for writing data to a destination. Java provides strong but flexible support for I/O related to files and networks but this tutorial covers very basic functionality related to streams and I/O. We will see the most commonly used examples one by one ? Byte Streams Java byte streams are used to perform input and output of 8-bit bytes. Though there are many classes related to byte streams but the most frequently used classes are, FileInputStream and FileOutputStream. Character Streams Java Byte streams are used to perform input and output of 8-bit bytes, whereas Java Character streams are used to perform input and output for 16-bit Unicode. Though there are many classes related to character streams but the most frequently used classes are, FileReader and FileWriter. Though internally FileReader uses FileInputStream and FileWriter uses FileOutputStream but here the major difference is that FileReader reads two bytes at a time and FileWriter writes two bytes at a time. Standard Streams All the programming languages provide support for standard I/O where the user's program can take input from a keyboard and then produce an output on the computer screen. If you are aware of C or C++ programming languages, then you must be aware of three standard devices STDIN, STDOUT and STDERR. Similarly, Java provides the following three standard streams ? Standard Input ? This is used to feed the data to the user's program and usually a keyboard is used as a standard input stream and represented as in. Standard Output ? This is used to output the data produced by the user's program and usually a computer screen is used for standard output stream and represented as out. Standard Error ? This is used to output the error data produced by the user's program and usually a computer screen is used for standard error stream and represented as err. Reading And Writing Files As described earlier, a stream can be defined as a sequence of data. The InputStream is used to read data from a source and the OutputStream is used for writing data to a destination. Tip for becoming a good Java programmer Java is considered as the basic programming language for many applications around the world. Also, it is the easiest language that can be learned to enter the IT sector. When object-oriented programming is considered the first thing that strikes our mind is Java that makes the way for cross-platform programming along with the application development. Java Training in Tnagar at FITA will help aspirants to make a successful career as a Java Developer. Its popularity is due to the effortless path to perform multiple tasks related to programming. Java has been of complete utilization by the experts in the field. And for becoming an efficient developer in Java certain tips will be useful for you. Strong foundation in the basics Whatever may be the course you are learning having a thorough knowledge of basics is considered to be very important. As there is no point of getting a doubt in sentence formation when you are not thorough of the alphabet. Its human nature to learn many things and forget the basics. Thus, it leads to the stumbling of developers during the creation of critical programs in Java programming as well. Execute the gained knowledge It is usual for children watching TV or listening to music while studying these days, which leads to a shorter span of memory. Similarly, developers who just learn the concepts at one go and do not execute them will experience some sort of issue during the execution of any new program. Thus, we offer hands-on experience for almost all the topics in the class. Figure out the code and algorithm For any language, it is indeed necessary to understand the code before its execution. Thus, start actualizing the need for every code you are using in the program right from the beginning, which in turn will build up your confidence while writing complex programs. It has been witnessed that even experts who have years of experience split the whole program into smaller portions to solve them. Memory allocation This point has been mentioned for the developers who are changing their domain from C or C++ to Java. As the former language doesn't consist of this feature. For further information related to Java do enroll yourself into our Java Training in Anna Nagar. DevOps tools knowledge Tools knowledge will be of great use during the execution of complicated programs. Thus, get a thorough knowledge of it from the experts from the industry. Create only useful objects It is to be kept in mind that whatever object you create it must be useful as they are memory consumers along with the speed. As the creation of any object is incomplete until memory allocation is completed. Thus, it will be better if you cross-check the object requirements before its creation. Interface better than Abstract class Multiple inheritances are absent in Java make sure you remember this throughout your career as this may have set-back in your life. When compared with the Abstract class, the interface allows the user to have numerous methods to work. The standard library added advantage Java has blurred many languages that came into existence before it. This is due to the set of standard library which is present in abundance. These library methods make the work of the developer simpler in an organized manner. Moreover, the accomplishment of tasks is presented in a simplified manner. Primitive classes prefer over Wrapper class A wrapper class is of great service and primitive class is comparatively slower as they only have the value whereas the former can store information. Wrapper class consists of object value whereas primitive class won't dish out the expected results. Deal with Strings Object-oriented programming categorizes string as a class that affects both the memory and speed of any system. Hence, you must be aware of the usage of string in Java. Get the in-depth knowledge in Java from experts by joining our Java Training in Velachery. Learn Latest version of Java at FITA Even after 5 years from the launch still its usage has not been reduced due to its one-line code features such as lambdas and stream API. The launch of Java 9, 10, 11 didn't affect much. Besides, Java 12 which was launched in March 2019 has various features to negate the shortcomings in previous versions. JVM's internals If becoming an expert in Java is your aim, then JVM internals is something which is to be shed light on. If you are well versed with this, then high-performance and robustness will be very easy for you. Thus, join our Java Training in Chennai for enhancing your career. Design patterns It will be helpful for you if designing patterns are a known part regarding Java course. With the knowledge of design, you will be able to incorporate them into your code as per the requirement. Thus, be a step ahead of others by joining our Java Course in Chennai. If you are interested in learning Java, then join our Java Training in Chennai at FITA, the best Java Training institute in Chennai. Request a Batch Click Here for Video Testimonials Quick Enquiry Select The BranchChennai - VelacheryChennai - Anna NagarChennai - T NagarChennai - TambaramChennai - ThoraipakkamCoimbatoreMadurai Select The CourseC/C++JAVA/J2EEDot NetPythonPython with Machine LearningSoftware TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTLoadRunnerMobile Testing/AppiumJMeterSEODigital MarketingCloud Computing/AWSAzureSalesforceVMWareDevOpsBig Data/HadoopR AnalyticsData ScienceMachine Learning using Python / RSparkTableauIoT - Internet of ThingsRPABlockchainAndroidiOSIonicAngularJSFull StackMEANNodeJSReactJS/NativeUI UXPHP/MYSQLWeb DesigningPhotoshopGraphic DesignCCNASASInformaticaPlacement Training/AptitudeCareer GuidanceOracleUnix/LinuxEmbeddedExcelEthical HackingPegaPrimaveraTallyGSTIELTSSpoken EnglishGermanFrenchJapaneseSpanishInplantOther Planning to Start TrainingImmediatelyIn 2 WeeksIn a Month 
		 Contact Us Chennai   98404 11333  support@fita.in Coimbatore  95978 88270  support.coimbatore@fita.in Madurai  97900 94102  support.madurai@fita.in For Hiring  93840 47472  hr@fita.in Pearson VUE Exam center  81440 71440 Corporate Training  90036 23340 Recently Placed Students Prakash Seya Soft Technologies Android Developer Siva Kumar CTS JAVA Developer Manish Pointel Dot Net Developer Aishwarya BNP Paribas Dot Net Developer Nithish Wipro Java Developer Top Courses JAVA And J2EE Training In Chennai Dot Net Training In Chennai Software Testing Training In Chennai Cloud Computing & Salesforce Training In Chennai AngularJS Training in Chennai Big Data Hadoop Training In Chennai Android Training In Chennai IOS Training In Chennai Web Designing Course In Chennai PHP Training In Chennai Digital Marketing Training In Chennai SEO Training In Chennai Oracle Training In Chennai Selenium Training In Chennai Data Science Course In Chennai RPA Training In Chennai DevOps Training In Chennai C / C++ Training In Chennai UNIX Training In Chennai Placement Training In Chennai German Classes In Chennai Python Training in Chennai Artificial Intelligence Course in Chennai AWS Training in Chennai × REGISTER ? FITA Academy 5 out of 5 based on 20345 ratings. Review Source Justdial   Facebook   Google   Sulekha   Thinkvidya FITA Velachery 37F Velachery Main Road, Velachery, Chennai - 600042 Tamil Nadu Next to Adyar Ananda Bhavan 98404-11333 / 044-42084566 support@fita.in FITA Thoraipakkam OMR 5/350, Old Mahabalipuram Road, Okkiyam Thoraipakkam, Chennai - 600097, Tamil Nadu Next to Cognizant Thoraipakkam Office and Opposite to Nilgris Supermarket 98404-11333 support@fita.in FITA Anna Nagar No 14, Block No, 338, 2nd Ave, Ranganathan Garden, Anna Nagar, Chennai - 600040 Tamil Nadu Next to Santhosh Super Market 98404-11333 support@fita.in FITA Coimbatore First Floor, Promenade Tower, 171/2A, Sathy Road, Saravanampatty, Coimbatore - 641035 Tamil Nadu 95978-88270 support.coimbatore@fita.in FITA T Nagar 505, 5th Floor, Challa Mall, T Nagar, Chennai - 600017 Tamil Nadu Opposite to Pondy Bazaar Globus 98404-11333 / 044-42147233 support@fita.in FITA Madurai No.2A, Sivanandha salai, Arapalayam Cross Road, Ponnagaram Colony, Madurai - 625016 Tamil Nadu 97900-94102 support.madurai@fita.in FITA Tambaram No 27, Nehru Nagar, Kadaperi, GST Road, West Tambaram, Chennai - 600045 Tamil Nadu Opposite to Saravana Jewellers Near MEPZ 98404-11333 support@fita.in Are you located in any of these areas Adyar, Adambakkam, Anna Salai, Ambattur, Ashok Nagar, Aminjikarai, Anna Nagar, Besant Nagar, Chromepet, Choolaimedu, Guindy, Egmore, K.K. Nagar, Kodambakkam, Koyambedu, Ekkattuthangal, Kilpauk, Meenambakkam, Medavakkam, Nandanam, Nungambakkam, Madipakkam, Teynampet, Nanganallur, Navalur, Mylapore, Pallavaram, Purasaiwakkam, OMR, Porur, Pallikaranai, Poonamallee, Perambur, Saidapet, Siruseri, St.Thomas Mount, Perungudi, T.Nagar, Sholinganallur, Triplicane, Thoraipakkam, Tambaram, Vadapalani, Valasaravakkam, Villivakkam, Thiruvanmiyur, West Mambalam, Velachery and Virugambakkam. FITA Velachery or T Nagar or Thoraipakkam OMR or Anna Nagar or Tambaram branch is just few kilometre away from your location. If you need the best training in Chennai, driving a couple of extra kilometres is worth it! JAVA and J2EE Training in Chennai Dot Net Training in Chennai Android Training in Chennai Software Testing Training in Chennai Big Data Hadoop Training in Chennai Salesforce Training in Chennai PHP Training in Chennai Tally Course in Chennai AngularJS Training in Chennai Data Science Course in Chennai AWS Training in Chennai DevOps Training in Chennai RPA Training in Chennai Ethical Hacking Course in Chennai Python Training in Chennai German Classes in Chennai Spoken English Classes in Chennai IELTS Coaching in Chennai Copyright © 2018. All rights reserved. Back To Top Call us at: +91 98404 11333 Request a Callback × Quick Enquiry Select The BranchChennai - VelacheryChennai - Anna NagarChennai - T NagarChennai - TambaramChennai - ThoraipakkamCoimbatoreMadurai Select The CourseC/C++JAVA/J2EEDot NetPythonPython with Machine LearningSoftware TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTLoadRunnerMobile Testing/AppiumJMeterSEODigital MarketingCloud Computing/AWSAzureSalesforceVMWareDevOpsBig Data/HadoopR AnalyticsData ScienceMachine Learning using Python / RSparkTableauIoT - Internet of ThingsRPABlockchainAndroidiOSIonicAngularJSFull StackMEANNodeJSReactJS/NativeUI UXPHP/MYSQLWeb DesigningPhotoshopGraphic DesignCCNASASInformaticaPlacement Training/AptitudeCareer GuidanceOracleUnix/LinuxEmbeddedExcelEthical HackingPegaPrimaveraTallyGSTIELTSSpoken EnglishGermanFrenchJapaneseSpanishInplantOther Planning to Start TrainingImmediatelyIn 2 WeeksIn a Month 
		 × Quick Enquiry CourseC/C++JAVA/J2EEDot NetPythonSoftware TestingSeleniumQTPLoadRunnerMobile Testing/AppiumJMeterSEODigital MarketingCloud Computing/AWSSalesforceVMWareBig Data/HadoopAndroidiOSAngularJSPHP/ MYSQLWeb DesigningCCNASASInformaticaPegaPlacement TrainingCareer guidanceOracleEmbeddedSpoken EnglishGermanFrenchJapaneseOther Select The BranchVelacheryT NagarThoraipakkamAnna Nagar Planning to Start TrainingImmediatelyIn 2 WeeksIn a Month To use CAPTCHA, you need Really Simple CAPTCHA plugin installed. Quick Enquiry Select The BranchChennai - VelacheryChennai - Anna NagarChennai - T NagarChennai - TambaramChennai - ThoraipakkamCoimbatoreMadurai Select The CourseC/C++JAVA/J2EEDot NetPythonPython with Machine LearningSoftware TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTLoadRunnerMobile Testing/AppiumJMeterSEODigital MarketingCloud Computing/AWSAzureSalesforceVMWareDevOpsBig Data/HadoopR AnalyticsData ScienceMachine Learning using Python / RSparkTableauIoT - Internet of ThingsRPABlockchainAndroidiOSIonicAngularJSMEANNodeJSReactJS/NativeUI UXPHP/MYSQLWeb DesigningPhotoshopGraphic DesignCCNASASInformaticaPlacement Training/AptitudeCareer GuidanceOracleUnix/LinuxEmbeddedExcelEthical HackingPegaPrimaveraTallyGSTIELTSSpoken EnglishGermanFrenchJapaneseSpanishInplantOther Planning to Start TrainingImmediatelyIn 2 WeeksIn a Month